# Solar + Storage Rebate Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-06-29 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-03-20 20:50:13 
 ***state** : Oregon 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2020-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2029-01-02 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Oregon Department of Energy 
 ***funding Source*** : State Budget 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, see below

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, see below

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : In the case of a paired solar and storage system, the system must include a
minimum of one kilowatt DC of solar electric nameplate capacity for every five
kilowatt-hours of battery storage.

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Systems must be new, certified by the applicable standard, and carry a minimum
5-year workmanship warranty.  
PV Inverters must carry a minimum 5-year warranty.  
PV modules must carry a minimum 20-year warranty.

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Must be installed by a program-approved contractor, must meet industry
standards and the technical specifications, received all applicable electrical
and structural permits and pass all final inspections.

 
 ## Summary : 
 [H.B.
2618](https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz//2019R1/Measures/Overview/HB2618)
of 2019 established the Solar + Storage rebate program and instructed the
Oregon Department of Energy to administer it. [H.B.
3409](https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2023R1/Measures/Overview/HB3409)
of 2023 extended the end data of the program to 2029. Incentives are available
for residential solar + storage systems, with higher rebate amounts available
for qualified low-income residents, and those ineligible for an incentive from
their utility. Rebates are paid directly to the program-approved contractor,
who installs the equipment, and will be passed on to the customer.  

**Solar PV System Rebates:**

  * Residents eligible for a utility incentive: $0.20 per watt DC, up to 40% of net cost or $5,000, whichever is less
  * Residents not eligible for a utility incentive: $0.50 per watt DC, up to 40% of net cost or $5,000, whichever is less
  * Low- or moderate-income residents: $1.80 per watt DC, up to 60% of net cost or $5,000, whichever is less
  * Low-income service provider: $0.75 per watt DC, up to 50% of net cost or $30,000, whichever is less

  

**Energy Storage System Rebates:**

  

  * Residents: $300 per kWh of installed energy storage capacity, up to 40% of net cost or $2,500, whichever is less
  * Low-income residents: $300 per kWh of installed energy storage capacity, up to 60% of net cost or $2,500, whichever is less
  * Low-income service providers: $300 per kWh of installed energy storage capacity, up to 60% of net cost or $15,000, whichever is less

Rebate requests are processed on a first-come, first-served basis for complete
applications. Incomplete applications will not be approved nor funds reserved
until missing items/information are provided. In a calendar year, at least 25%
of available rebate dollars will be reserved for systems for low- or moderate-
income residential customers and low-income service providers.​

 
 