# Nevada Appliance and Equipment Energy Efficiency Standards 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-07-08 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-10-30 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Nevada 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Appliance/Equipment Efficiency Standards 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : AB383 Section 29.

 
 ***Test Methods*** : AB383 Section 31.

 
 ***Certification Requirements*** : AB383 Section 34.

 
 ***Implementing Agency*** : State of Nevada Office of Energy

 
 ## Summary : 
 _  
_

_NOTE: The federal government has imposed and updated appliance efficiency
standards through several legislative acts,* and now has standards in place or
under development for 30 classes of products. In general, states which had set
standards prior to federal action may enforce their own standards until the
federal standards take effect. States that had not set standards prior to
federal action must use the federal standards. This summary addresses (1)
state appliance standards that will be in place until the federal standards
take effect and (2) products for which the federal government is not currently
developing an efficiency standard. Much of the information in this summary
comes from the Appliance Standards Awareness Project
([ASAP](https://appliance-standards.org/)). Visit the ASAP web site and the
U.S. Department of Energy's [Appliance and Equipment
Standards](https://www.energy.gov/node/773531) site for comprehensive
information about appliance standards._  

  

On May 27, 2019, the Nevada Assembly passed
[AB54](https://www.leg.state.nv.us/App/NELIS/REL/80th2019/Bill/5954/Text),
codifying new water and energy efficiency standards effective on January 1,
2021. This bill amends a previous energy efficiency bill
[AB54](https://www.leg.state.nv.us/App/NELIS/REL/80th2019/Bill/5954/Text)
regarding the energy efficiency of service lamps. Products with new or updated
energy standards, without federal preemption are listed below:

  * Air purifiers
  * Commercial Dishwashers
  * Commercial Fryers
  * Commercial Ovens
  * Commercial Steam Cookers
  * Computers and Computer Systems
  * Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment
  * Faucets (2019)
  * Gas Fireplaces (2021)
  * High-CRI Linear Fluorescent Lamps
  * Hot Food Holding Cabinets
  * Portable Electric Spas
  * Residential Ventilating Fans
  * Showerheads
  * Toilets
  * Urinals
  * Water Coolers

These provisions do not apply to: new products manufactured in the State and
sold outside the State; new products manufactured outside the State and sold
at wholesale inside the State for final retail sale and installation outside
the State; products installed in mobile manufactured homes at the time of
construction; products designed expressly for installation and use in
recreational vehicles.

  

_* These acts include the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987,
the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007._

 
 