# Hawaii Appliance and Equipment Energy Efficiency Standards 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-07-08 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-10-25 15:25:18 
 ***state** : Hawaii 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Appliance/Equipment Efficiency Standards 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Appliance Manufacturers 
 ***Test Methods*** : ยง196-H Manufacturers shall test, certify, and label products meeting the
standards set forth in section 196-E and may utilize testing, certification,
and labeling programs of other states and federal agencies with similar
standards for purposes of compliance under this part. Products listed in
California's Modernized Appliance Efficiency Database System shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this part.

 
 ***Review*** : Submitting, to the public utilities commission for review and approval, a
multi-year budget and planning cycle that promotes program improvement,
program stability, and maturation of programs and delivery resources

 
 ***Implementing Agency*** : Hawaii State Energy Office

 
 ## Summary : 
 _NOTE: The federal government has imposed and updated appliance efficiency
standards through several legislative acts,* and now has standards in place or
under development for 30 classes of products. In general, states which had set
standards prior to federal action may enforce their own standards until the
federal standards take effect. States that had not set standards prior to
federal action must use the federal standards. This summary addresses (1)
state appliance standards that will be in place until the federal standards
take effect and (2) products for which the federal government is not currently
developing an efficiency standard. Much of the information in this summary
comes from the Appliance Standards Awareness Project
([ASAP](https://appliance-standards.org/)). Visit the ASAP web site and the
U.S. Department of Energy's [Appliance and Equipment
Standards](https://www.energy.gov/node/773531) site for comprehensive
information about appliance standards._

On May 1, 2019, the Hawaii House of Representatives passed [HB556
DC1](https://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/session2019/bills/HB556_CD1_.htm),
codifying new water and energy efficiency standards effective on January 1,
2021. Additionally, the state is phasing out the sale of fluorescent lighting.
Screw-base CFL bulbs will be phased out on January 1, 2025, and pin-base CFL
and fluorescent tubes will be phased out on January 1, 2026. Products with new
or updated energy standards, without federal preemption are listed below:

  * Computer and Computer Systems (2019)
  * Faucets (2019)
  * High-CRI Linear Fluorescent Lamps (2019)
  * Showerheads (2019)
  * Spray Sprinkler Bodies (2019)

These provisions do not apply to: new products manufactured in the State and
sold outside the State; new products manufactured outside the State and sold
at wholesale inside the State for final retail sale and installation outside
the State; products installed in mobile manufactured homes at the time of
construction; products designed expressly for installation and use in
recreational vehicles.

  

_* These acts include the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987,
the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007._

 
 