# Connecticut Green Energy Building Solutions 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-07-13 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2021-07-13 18:05:39 
 ***state** : Connecticut 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Green Building Incentive 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Construction, Industrial, Local Government, Residential, Installers/Contractors, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Connecticut Green Bank 
 ## Summary : 
 Connecticut Green Bank offers green energy solutions to home, building and
multifamily property owners, residential and commercial contractors, towns and
cities, and even capital providers. Learn more about their programs
[here](https://www.ctgreenbank.com/programs/all-programs/). A list of
incentives for each property owner is included below. For more information on
the Connecticut Green Bank visit the DSIRE Connecticut [Clean Energy Fund
program
listing](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/157/connecticut-
clean-energy-fund).  

**Homeowners**

  * Smart-E Loan: No money down, low-interest financing with flexible terms to help you upgrade your home’s energy performance. Almost any home improvement project that reduces energy use and lowers costs may qualify.
  * Residential Solar Investment Program (RSIP): he Residential Solar Investment Program provides rebates that lower the initial out-of-pocket costs to homeowners who wish to install a solar photovoltaic (PV) system.
  * PosiGen Solar + Efficiency for Low-to-Moderate Income Homeowners: offers to low-to-moderate income homeowners a solar lease that also combines money-saving energy efficiency measures.

**Building Owners**

  * C-PACE: An innovative program that lets you pay for green energy improvements over time through a voluntary benefit assessment on your property tax bill. C-PACE makes it easier for building owners to secure low-interest capital to fund energy improvements and is structured so that energy savings more than offset the benefit assessment.

**Multifamily Housing**

  * Save money on operating costs, reduce energy costs, and improve the living environment for your tenants with support from the Connecticut Green Bank. 
  * Eligibility: Owners of multifamily residential properties with 5 or more units, Owners of market rate and affordable housing, Private owners, Non-profit owners, Public Housing Authorities, Assisted living communities, Condominium and cooperative associations
  * Available Upgrades Include: Heating and cooling systems, Hot water systems, Building envelope, Lighting and appliances, Water efficiency, Renewable energy systems (solar PV, solar thermal, and others), Conversion from oil or electric to gas, Qualified health and safety measures

**Residential and Commercial Contractors**

  * Smart-E Loan
  * Multifamily Energy Financing Programs
  * Residential Solar Investment Program (RSIP)
  * C-PACE

**Towns and Cities**

  * Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs)
  * Solarize CT: Coordinated outreach, education and marketing, combined with competitive pricing for homeowners, have rapidly expanded solar in communities across the state.
  * C-PACE Municipalities: Economic development tool to attract and retain business with lower energy costs, creating jobs, while reducing greenhouse gases and other pollutants. 

**Capital Providers**

Connecticut Green Bank offers partnerships with local lenders and capital
providers to help support the green energy movement.

 
 