# Green Job Creation Tax Credit 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-07-13 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2021-07-16 17:22:17 
 ***state** : Virginia 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Industry Recruitment/Support 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial 
 ***start date*** : 2010-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2025-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Virginia Department of Taxation 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : $500 tax credit per job created

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : The amount of the credit that may be claimed in any single taxable year shall
not exceed the taxpayer's liability for taxes imposed by this chapter for that
taxable year.

 
 ***Terms*** : Must create a new job in the alternative energy/renewable energy fields. The
Department of Commerce and Trade will promulgate rules regarding qualifying
jobs.

 
 ## Summary : 
 [Virginia Code ยง
58.1-439.12:05](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title58.1/chapter3/section58.1-439.12:05/)
stipulates that for taxable years 2010 to 2025, a taxpayer shall be allowed a
credit of $500 for each new green job created with an annual salary of at
least $50,000. The credit is to be allowed for the first taxable year the job
is created and for the four succeeding taxable years. Each taxpayer qualified
for this section shall be allowed credit of up to 350 green jobs. Credits
granted to a partnership, limited liability company, or electing small
business corporation (S corporation) shall be allocated to the individual
partners, members, or shareholders, respectively, in proportion to their
ownership or interest in such business entities.

"Green job" are defined as employment in industries relating to the field of
renewable, alternative energies, including the manufacture and operation of
products used to generate electricity and other forms of energy from
alternative sources that include hydrogen and fuel cell technology, landfill
gas, geothermal heating systems, solar heating systems, hydropower systems,
wind systems, and biomass and biofuel systems.  

**Alternative Energy Sources**

Eligible alternative energy sources are defined as "hydrogen and fuel cell
technology, landfill gas, geothermal heating systems, solar heating systems,
hydropower systems, wind systems, and biomass and biofuel systems."

**Green Jobs**

Defined as employment in industries relating to the field of renewable,
alternative energies, including the manufacture and operation of products used
to generate electricity and other forms of energy from alternative sources
that include hydrogen and fuel cell technology, landfill gas, geothermal
heating systems, solar heating systems, hydropower systems, wind systems, and
biomass and biofuel systems

 
 