# Vermont Electric Coop - EV Charging Station Bill Credit 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-08-16 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-05-24 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Vermont 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Other Incentive 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Vermont Electric Cooperative 
 ***additional technologies*** : EV Charging Stations 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Level-2 Electric Vehicle Service Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 250.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **Vermont Electric Coop**

VEC is offering a $250 bill credit for the purchase of a home Level II
electric vehicle charger. VEC also offers a $500 bill credit per connection
($500 for a 1-head charger, $1,000 for a 2-head charger) with a $2,000 maximum
per member for public charging stations. These incentives are designed to help
members purchase and install a Level II charger and avoid charging at times
when electricity costs are highest.

**Level II Elective Vehicle Charge Stations**

Level 2 charging uses 240 volt power to enable faster regeneration of an EV’s
battery system. Providing this type of charging requires installation of an
EVSE unit and electrical wiring capable of handling higher voltage power.
Plug-in America’s PlugStar tools offer a listing of Level 2 EVSE currently on
the market. Many utilities are offering free level 2 charging equipment and/or
incentives with an electric car purchase. These stations provide fast charge
times of 10 - 20 miles of range per hour of charge and about 3% more energy
efficiency than level 1 stations. These systems are more expensive than level
1 stations and may have a potentially higher impact on peak kilowatt demand
charges for businesses.

**Public Charging Stations**

VEC is offering bill credit incentives for the installation of Level 2 and
Level 3 public charging stations. Eligible applicants are businesses and
public entities (schools, towns, etc.) with stations that were operational
after July 1, 2017, provided the charging station is available to the public.
VEC offers a $500 bill credit per connection ($500 for a 1-head charger,
$1,000 for a 2-head charger) with a $2,000 maximum per member. For more
information on public charging stations
[visit](https://www.driveelectricvt.com/about-evs/about-charging), or to get
the bill credit complete this
[form](https://vermontelectric.coop/client_media/files/EV_charging_station_incentive_2021.pdf).

**Residential Customer Program Conditions**

Recipients of the $250 bill credit must do one of the following:

  * If their charger is on the list below, members may be able to enroll in a communications platform so that VEC can request that your charger not operate during peak events (5-6 events per month for 3-4 hours each). A VEC representative will contact you to complete this process, and you will receive an additional $50 incentive for enrolling.
  * If the charger is not on the list below or the member chooses not to enroll their charger in the control platform, the member should set their car charger or car schedule to not charge from 5-9 p.m. Mon-Fri and send in a screenshot of that schedule.

Available VEC communications platforms:

  * ChargePoint Home Flex
  * FLO Home
  * Webasto (Packetized-enabled)

To receive a bill credit, submit this
[form](https://vermontelectric.coop/client_media/files/L2_incentive_form_5_24_21_fillable_1.pdf)
along with a proof of purchase and screenshot of a car of charging schedule.
To learn more, read the [Frequently Asked
Questions](https://vermontelectric.coop/client_media/files/Home_Level_II_Charger_Program_7_23_21.pdf).

  

 
 