# Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Tax Credit 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-08-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2022-08-29 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Federal 
 **implementing sector***: Federal 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Personal Tax Credit 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Agricultural 
 ***start date*** : 2010-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Internal Revenue Service 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Vehicles purchased prior to 1/1/2023: $2,500 plus $417 for each kWh of battery
capacity in excess of 4 kilowatt-hours  
Vehicles purchased after 12/31/2022: Up to $7,500 if certain sourcing
requirements are met

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $7,500

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Passenger Electric Vehicles, Plug-in Electric Hybrid Vehicles 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Agricultural 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers minimum of 3750.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: Section 13401 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ([H.R.
5376](https://www.congress.gov/117/bills/hr5376/BILLS-117hr5376enr.pdf#page=137))
modified this tax credit for electric vehicles place into service after
December 31, 2022. _**

  

**Vehicles placed into service prior to January 1, 2023:**

The federal government provides a tax credit for the purchase of a new all
electric or plug-in hybrid electric vehicle. To qualify, the vehicle must be
made by a manufacturer, have a gross vehicle weight rating of not more than
14,000 pounds, and be propelled to a significant extent by an electric motor
which draws electricity from a battery which has a capacity of at least 4
kilowatt-hours (kWh) and is capable of being recharged from an external
source.  

The credit has a base value of $2,500, and an additional value based on the
capacity of the battery. The capacity-based credit is $417 for each kWh of
capacity in excess of 4 kWh, up to a combined maximum tax credit of $7,500.
The credit will begin to be phased out for each manufacturer in the second
quarter following the calendar quarter in which a minimum of 200,000 qualified
vehicles have been sold by that manufacturer for use in the United States.

  

**Vehicles placed into service after December 31, 2022 and before January 1,
2033:**  

Qualifying electric vehicles can receive a total tax credit of $7,500 if
certain component sourcing requirements are met; $3,750 for critical minerals
and $3,750 for battery components. Additionally, the final assembly of
vehicles must take place in North America to be eligible, and beginning in
2025 no percentage of the material used in the vehicle’s battery can be
extracted or processed in or by an entity of foreign concern as defined in 42
USC 18741 (a)(5).

To be eligible, sedans must have a manufacturer’s suggested retail price of
$55,000 or less; and vans, SUV, and pick-up trucks must have a manufacturer’s
suggested retail price of $80,000 or less. The credit is not available for
taxpayers with a modified adjusted gross income exceeding: $300,000 for a
joint filing, $225,000 for a head of household, or $150,000 for a single
filing.

Qualifying electric vehicles can receive a tax credit of $3,750 if their
batteries meet the percentages specified below for 1) critical minerals being
extracted and processed in the United States or another country with which the
United States has a free trade agreement, or 2) being recycled in North
America.  

  * 2023: 40%
  * 2024: 50%
  * 2025: 60%
  * 2026: 70%
  * 2027-2032: 80%

Qualifying electric vehicles can receive an additional tax credit of $3,750
for meeting the percentages specified below for battery components being
manufactured and assembled in North America.  

  * 2023: 50%
  * 2024-2025: 60%
  * 2026: 70%
  * 2027: 80%
  * 2028: 90%
  * 2028-2032: 100%

The Inflation Reduction Act also established a process through which the
vehicle purchaser can transfer the credit to the dealer in exchange for either
cash or a partial payment or down payment for the purchase of the vehicle.

 
 