# Madison Gas & Electric - Electric Vehicle Charger Leasing Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-08-20 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-09-21 18:20:07 
 ***state** : Wisconsin 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Leasing Program 
 ***administrator*** : Madison Gas and Electric 
 ## Summary : 
 **Charge@Home Program**

Madison Gas and Electric's new home charging program makes it quick and easy
to charge your car's battery with a Level 2 (L2) charger. L2 chargers can
charge up to six times faster than a standard 120-volt electrical outlet and
offer more flexibility to charge when you want. This program provides a
[ChargePoint Home L2 charger](https://www.chargepoint.com/drivers/home/)
without having to pay up-front costs. You'll pay a monthly fee of about $20
(64 cents per day) plus the cost of electricity. Sign up for our [Shift & Save
electric rate](https://www.mge.com/our-environment/electric-vehicles/shift-
save) and reduce your electricity costs by charging at times when rates are
lowest.

**Level II Electric Vehicle Charge Stations**

Level 2 charging uses 240 volt power to enable faster regeneration of an EV’s
battery system. Providing this type of charging requires installation of an
EVSE unit and electrical wiring capable of handling higher voltage power.
Plug-in America’s PlugStar tools offer a listing of Level 2 EVSE currently on
the market. Many utilities are offering free level 2 charging equipment and/or
incentives with an electric car purchase. These stations provide fast charge
times of 10 - 20 miles of range per hour of charge and about 3% more energy
efficiency than level 1 stations. These systems are more expensive than level
1 stations and may have a potentially higher impact on peak kilowatt demand
charges for businesses.

 
 