# Rocky Mountain Power - EV Charging Station Grant and Rebate Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-08-23 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-11-10 16:36:29 
 ***state** : Utah 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Rocky Mountain Power 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : **Non-Residential rebates**  
Single port AC Level 2 Charger: $1,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger
cost  
Multi-port AC Level 2 Charger: $1,500 per charger up to 75% of total charger
cost  
Single port DC Fast Charger: $30,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger
and installation costs  
Multi-Port DC Fast Charger: $42,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger and
installation costs  
  
**Residential Rebates**  
AC Level 2 Charger: 75% of cost up to $200

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Equipment must be on the approved chargers list.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Direct Current Fast Charging Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Commercial, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers minimum of 30000.0 $/Unit 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Level-2 Electric Vehicle Service Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Commercial, Commercial, Residential, Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers minimum of 1000.0 $/Unit 
 
 ## Summary : 
 Incentives are available to Utah businesses, communities and multi-unit
properties for both Level 2 and DC fast chargers. Residential customers may
also qualify for incentives when adding a Level 2 charger to their home.
Equipment must be on the [approved chargers
list](https://www.rockymountainpower.net/content/dam/pcorp/documents/en/rockymountainpower/savings-
energy-choices/electric-vehicles/RMP_Approved_EV_Chargers.pdf) to be eligible
for incentives.

[AC Level 2 Charger (Non-
residential)](https://www.rockymountainpower.net/savings-energy-
choices/electric-vehicles/utah-commercial-incentives.html):  

  * Single port: $1,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger cost
  * Multi-port: $1,500 per charger up to 75% of total charger cost

[DC Fast Charger (Non-
residential)](https://www.rockymountainpower.net/savings-energy-
choices/electric-vehicles/utah-commercial-incentives.html):

  * Single port: $30,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger and installation costs (subject to cap)
  * Multi-Port: $42,000 per charger up to 75% of total charger and installation costs (subject to cap)
  * DCFC chargers that are under 100 kW are subject to a reduced incentive.

[AC Level 2 Charger (Residential)](https://www.rockymountainpower.net/savings-
energy-choices/electric-vehicles/utah-incentives.html):

  * 75% of charger cost and/or installation cost up to $200.
  * Maximum incentive per charger will not exceed $200. Limit of one charger per vehicle.
  * Customers must be enrolled in the EV TOU program, Subscriber Solar, or grandfathered into Net Metering (Schedule 135).

Custom incentives are also available for non-residential make-ready projects.
Make-ready project incentives help pay upfront costs for electrical
infrastructure and installation of EV projects. Applications for these
incentives are due quarterly on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December
31.

 
 