# New York State Electric and Gas - Electric Vehicle Make-Ready Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-08-28 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-11-13 21:11:30 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Multifamily Residential 
 ***administrator*** : New York State Electric and Gas 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Non-public locations and/or locations without standardized plugs: Up to 50% of
cost  
Public locations with standardized plugs: Up to 90% of cost  
Locations in disadvantaged communities: Up to 100% of cost

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Make-Ready Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Multifamily Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 100.0 % of cost 
 
 ## Summary : 
 New York State Energy and Gas' Electric Vehicle Charging Station Make-Ready
Program provides funding for up to 100% of the electric infrastructure costs
associated with building new electric vehicle charging stations. See project
eligibility by incentive below.

Up to 100%

  * Publicly available DCFC projects with standardized plug types located within Disadvantaged Communities.
  * L2 projects at multi-unit dwellings located within Disadvantaged Communities.

Up to 90%

  * Publicly available L2 and DCFC projects with standardized plug types located outside of Disadvantaged Communities. Includes municipal pay-to-park and free parking locations.
  * Publicly available L2 and DCFC projects including proprietary plugs must have an equal number of standardized plus of an equal or greater charging capacity to the proprietary plugs (outside of Disadvantaged Communities).

Up to 50%

  * Non-public L2 and DCFC projects, such as workplaces with restricted access and privately-owned pay-to-park lots.
  * Public and non-public L2 and DCFC projects consisting only of proprietary plugs.
  * Public and non-pubic L2 and DCFC projects where proprietary plugs are not co-located with an equal number or greater number of standardized plugs of equal or greater charging capacity.

 
 