# Successor Solar Incentive (SuSI) Program - Administratively Determined Incentive 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-10-01 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-12-15 15:57:01 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Performance-Based Incentive 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2021-08-28 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Board of Public Utilities 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Net-Metered Residential: $85/SREC-II  
  
Small Net-Metered Non-Residential located on Rooftop, Carport, Canopy and
Floating Solar  
Projects smaller than 1 MW (dc): $110/SREC-II, $130 for public entities  
Projects 1 MW to 5 MW (dc): $100/SREC-II, $120 for public entities  
  
Net Metered Non-Residential Ground Mount  
Projects smaller than 1 MW (dc): $90/SREC-II, $110 for public entities  
Projects 1 MW to 5 MW (dc): $85/SREC-II, $105 for public entities  
  
Community Solar Permanent Program (LMI only): $90/SREC-II  
  
  
Interim Subsection (t) Grid: $100/SREC-II  
Subsection (t) applies to facilities located on brownfield, properly closed
landfill, or historic fill sites.

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : MW-DC Capacity Blocks  
Net Metered Residential: 250 MW  
Net Metered Non-Residential: 257 MW  
Community Solar Program: 225 MW

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Net Metered Residential: All sizes  
Net Metered Non-Residential: 5 MW-DC max  
Community Solar Program: 5 MW-DC max

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : All solar equipment must be new

 
 ## Summary : 
 By [Board
Order](https://www.njcleanenergy.com/files/file/TI%20Program/FY22/8A%20ORDER%20Successor%20Solar%20Incentive.pdf)
on July 28, 2021, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU) established
the SuSI Program to implement the Clean Energy Act of 2018 (L. 2018, c.17) and
the Solar Act of 2021 (L. 2021, c. 169). The SuSI Program replaces the SREC
Registration Program (SRP), which was closed to new registration on April 30,
2020 pursuant to the Clean Energy Act, and the Transition Incentive (TI)
Program, which provided a bridge between the Legacy SRP and the SuSI Program.
A [Board Order](https://nj.gov/bpu/agenda/2023calendar/approved/20230308.html)
from March 6, 2023 revised the ADI SREC-II values, effective March 13, 2023.  

The SuSI Program is made up of two sub-programs:

**[Administratively Determined Incentive
Program](https://njcleanenergy.com/renewable-energy/programs/susi-program/adi-
program)**

The ADI Program provides incentives for net metered residential projects, net
metered non-residential projects of 5 MW or less, all community solar
projects, and, for an interim period, projects previously eligible to seek
conditional certification from the Board under Subsection (t). The interim
market segment is blocked for 75 MW, while net-metered residential, net-
metered non-residential, and community solar (The [permanent CS
program](https://njcleanenergy.com/renewable-energy/programs/susi-
program/csep) rules from October 2023 require all CS systems to meet 51% LMI
participation and removed the non-LMI incentive) is blocked for 225 MW in
energy years 2024 and 2025. The program will accept new registrations for each
market segment on a first-come, first-served basis until the block is fully
subscribed. Current available capacity is posted on the homepage of the [ADI
online portal.](https://njadi.programprocessing.com/)

**Market Segment** | **System Size (MW-DC)** | **Incentive Values ($/SREC-II)** | **Public Entities ($20 Adder)**  
---|---|---|---  
Net-Metered Residential | All Sizes | $85 | N/A  
Net-Metered Non-Residential located on rooftop, carport, canopy, and floating solar |  Smaller than 1 MW 1 MW - 5 MW |  $110 $100 |  $130 $120  
Net-Metered Non-Residential ground mount |  Smaller than 1 MW 1 MW - 5 MW |  $90 $85 |  $105 $105  
Community Solar LMI | Up to 5 MW | $90 | N/A  
Community Solar Non-LMI (Removed)  
| Up to 5 MW | LMI Only  
| N/A  
Interim Subsection (t) Grid | All Sizes | $100 | N/A  
  
An additional $20 adder is available for a public entity, a customer that is a
State entity, school district, county, county agency, county authority,
municipality, municipal agency, municipal authority, New Jersey public
college, or New Jersey public university. The Interim Subsection is available
on an interim basis for solar facilities certified as being located on
brownfield, historic fill, or properly closed landfills.

Registration opened on August 28, 2021.  

**[Competitive Solar Incentive Program](https://njcleanenergy.com/renewable-
energy/programs/susi-program/csi-program)**

This program provides competitively set incentives, as bid by developers, for
non-residential projects with nameplate capacity over 5 MW. See the
[Competitive Solar Incentive
Program](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/22480/)
description in DSIRE for more information.

 
 