# PSEG Long Island - Direct Current Fast Charging Incentive 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-09-04 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-07-03 17:15:07 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***administrator*** : PSEG Long Island 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Amounts vary by year; $5,000 incentive for first year starting in 2023

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : The maximum incentive amount is paid per plug capable of providing **≥ 75 kW**
of delivered-power simultaneously with all other plugs provided by the
charging equipment.  
  
Plugs capable of providing**50 kW to 74 kW** of delivered-power simultaneously
with all other plugs provided by the charging will receive 60% of the
incentive amount noted in the table above.  
  
Plugs supporting **< 50 kW** of delivered-power are not eligible for the
incentive.

 
 ## Summary : 
 **Note: No incentives will be earned after December 31, 2025.**  

PSEG Long Island offers incentives to help build Electric Vehicle (EV)
charging infrastructure with direct current fast charging (DCFC) units.
Incentive recipients will receive an annual per plug payout, payable at the
end of each 12-month anniversary. The initial incentive amount depends on when
the customer is accepted into the program (the eligibility year), and the
power rating of each plug. The incentive payout declines every year
thereafter. For more information, visit the program website.

 
 