# Solar Within Reach 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-09-30 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-05-31 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Oregon 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Energy Trust of Oregon 
 ***funding Source*** : Public Benefits Fund 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : PGE: $0.90/W  
Pacific Power: $1.00/W

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : PGE: $5,400 per home  
Pacific Power: $6,000 per home

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Systems must be new, listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory,
comply with all applicable standards, and carry a minimum 2-year warranty on
parts.  
Eligible Solar Within Reach projects must carry a minimum 7-year full system
workmanship warranty.  
Inverters must carry a minimum 5-year warranty.  
Panels must carry a minimum 20-year warranty.

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Installations must comply with all federal, state, and local codes and meet
detailed siting and interconnection criteria.  
Systems must be grid-connected, net-metered, pre-approved, and installed by an
approved 5-star Energy Trust solar trade ally contractor.

 
 ***Ownership of Renewable Energy Credits*** : Systems verified before 12/14/2018: system owner owns all REC produced during
the first 5 years of and those produced after the twentieth year of operation.
Energy Trust owns the RECs produced in years 6 - 20.  
Systems verified after 12/14/2018: system owner owns all the RECs

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Solar Photovoltaics 
 ***Sectors*** : Low Income Residential, Low Income Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers minimum of 0.9 $/W 
 
 ## Summary : 
 Energy Trust of Oregon provides increased incentives to income-qualified
homeowners in Oregon when they install solar with a qualifying contractor and
are a customer of Portland General Electric or Pacific Power. Qualifying
income levels are updated annually (see table below). To participate,
customers must own and live in a single-family home, manufactured home,
floating home, condo or multifamily residence that is either an attached side-
by-side unit or a duplex, triplex or fourplex.

**Income Qualifications:**

**Household Size** |  **Gross Annual Income Maximum**  
---|---  
1 Resident |  $58,688  
2 Resident |  $76,744  
3 Resident |  $94,802  
4 Resident |  $112,860  
5 Resident |  $130,918  
6 Resident |  $148,976  
7 Resident |  $152,362  
8 Resident |  $155,746  
  

**Incentive Rates**

  * PGE: $0.90/W, up to $5,400 per home
  * Pacific Power: $1.00/W, up to $6,000 per home

 _*Incentive offers are subject to funding availability._

Energy Trust will provide referrals to contractors from their Trade Ally
Network (self-installed systems will not qualify). The solar contractor
selected advises the customer on installation options and best siting designs
to obtain the maximum performance and satisfaction from the solar electric
system. The contractor will provide a system quote that estimates the PV
system annual performance, installation date, and the cost after Energy Trust
incentive deductions. After Energy Trust approves the customer's PV system,
the buy-down incentive will be paid to the solar contractor and deducted from
the final cost.

 
 