# Resilient Maryland Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-09-17 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2021-09-17 22:03:57 
 ***state** : Maryland 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2021-08-18 04:00:00 
 ***budget*** : $420,000 (FY2022) 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Range from $10,000 to $100,000 based on Area of Interest (AOI). See the
Summary section below for more information.

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $100,000

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Grant funds are for preconstruction feasibility analysis and planning
activities only.

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Maryland Energy Administration (MEA) FY22 Resilient Maryland program
provides grants to Maryland businesses, nonprofit organizations, industrial
entities, critical infrastructure, multifamily housing complexes, communities,
agricultural entities, and others for the costs of conducting feasibility
analysis, engineering, planning, and design of microgrids and other
distributed energy resource (DER) systems. Grant funds are used to offset the
costs of producing planning deliverables that help key project stakeholders
and prospective project financing entities understand DER system specifics and
value proposition. These deliverables also provide MEA with detailed
information on system configurations that are replicable and scalable and what
challenges they face.

Funds are awarded under three (3) Areas of Interest (AOIs) as described in the
table below. Note: “Resilient DER Systems” are DER systems that serve more
than one (1) building (e.g. a campus or set of buildings in a community).
“Resilient Facility Power Systems” are DER systems that serve a single
building. See the program Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) on the
Resilient Maryland webpage for a full glossary of terminology.

Resilient Maryland Area of Interest | Award Amount  
---|---  
AOI 1: Microgrids and Resilient DER Systems | $100,000 total  
AOI 2: Resilient Facility Power Systems | $25,000 total  
AOI 3: Resiliency Hub | $10,000 per hub  
  
**Program Restrictions**

Grant funds are for preconstruction feasibility analysis and planning
activities only. Funds are not provided for equipment and installation.
Projects for potential distributed energy resource (DER) systems that consider
one or more of the following technologies are eligible:

  * Solar PV Systems
  * Energy Storage
  * Fuel Cells
  * Combined Heat and Power
  * Wind Turbines 
  * Others (case-by-case basis)

Projects for potential distributed energy resource (DER) systems that consider
one or more of the following technologies in addition to generation and
storage technologies as described in the Eligible Renewable/Other Technologies
section above are eligible:

  * Building Management Systems
  * Grid-interactive efficiency technologies
  * Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs)
  * Fuel Cells
  * Combined Heat and Power
  * Standard efficiency measures (LED upgrades, HVAC measures, building envelope, etc.)

Recipients of prior Resilient Maryland grants cannot receive additional
Resilient Maryland grants for the same project. Projects must study DER
systems that serve facilities located only within the State of Maryland. For a
full list of program rules, requirements, and restrictions, please review the
FOA on the Resilient Maryland webpage, available at
<https://energy.maryland.gov/business/Pages/ResilientMaryland.aspx>.

 
 