# Community Solar Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2021-12-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-10 19:48:30 
 ***state** : New Mexico 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-04-01 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Public Regulation Commission 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Investor-owned electric public utilities. Native and rural electric
distribution cooperative projects can opt-in.

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : Up to 5MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : Up to 200MW split by utility. Public Service Company of New Mexico has 125 MW.
Southwestern Public Service Company has 45 MW. El Paso Electric has 30 MW.
These caps will last through April 2024. Native and rural cooperative projects
are not beholden to the cap.

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Credit rate is based on the utility's total aggregate retail rate on a per-
customer-class basis, minus the cost of approved distribution cost components

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : 30% of the electricity produced in a community solar facility must be reserved
for low-income subscribers

 
 ## Summary : 
 S.B. 84, enacted in April 2021, established a community solar program in New
Mexico. Community solar facilities can generate up to 5MW of alternating
current and must have at least 10 subscribers. A single subscriber can
purchase no more than 40% of the electricity from a system, and at least 40%
of each system's electricity must be reserved for smaller subscriptions of
25kW or less. Native community solar projects are exempt from these
requirements. In addition, 30% of a system's electricity must be reserved for
low-income subscribers. The program will open to the public in April 2023.  

Through April 2024, there are 200 MW available, split between the three major
utilities. After this, an annual cap will be created. Native and rural
cooperative solar projects are exempt from this cap.  

 
 