# PPL Electric Utilities - Business Incentive Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-08 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-15 19:10:51 
 ***state** : Pennsylvania 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Agricultural 
 ***start date*** : 2022-06-01 04:00:00 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : $0.08/kWh of energy reduction

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : 50% of project cost, up to $500,000

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Not specified.

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Solar projects must have a total resource cost ratio of 0.85 CHP project must
have a total resource cost ratio of 0.70

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Combined Heat & Power, Solar Photovoltaics 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Industrial, Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, Agricultural 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 0.08 $/kWh (1 year) 
 
 ## Summary : 
 PPL Electric Utilities offers incentives on a variety of energy efficiency
projects, including solar and CHP.

In 2023, the program design changed to offer energy-based incentives of 8
cents per kWh saved, calculated based on annual performance. The savings must
be based on production estimates and annual consumption data or estimates and
are subject to verification prior to full approval.

New construction projects will be vetted based on the PPL Electric service
application. Total Resource Cost and incentives will be calculated based on
customer's displaced energy.  
  
Pre-approval for solar projects is required. To receive pre-approval, you must
have a service and interconnection application submitted, as well as a signed
IIR document with PPL Electric. For assistance, reach out to
Businessaccounts@pplweb.com.  

  

 
 