# Community Solar Energy Pilot Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-03 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-23 02:41:26 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2019-01-17 05:00:00 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Atlantic City Electric, Jersey Central Power & Light, Public Service Electric
& Gas, Rockland Electric Co.

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 5 MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : 75 MW per program year.

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Retail rate, inclusive of supply and delivery charges.

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : 40% carve-out.

 
 ## Summary : 
 In May 2018, the governor signed [A3723](https://www.njleg.state.nj.us/bill-
search/2018/A3723)/[S2314](https://www.njleg.state.nj.us/bill-
search/2018/S2314), which mandates the creation of the Community Solar Energy
Pilot Program. The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities adopted rules
establishing the Community Solar Energy Pilot Program on January 17, 2019.

The pilot is designed to run for three years. Program Year 1 applications
opened on April 19, 2019. Program Year 2 applications were due on February 5,
2021. As of December 2022, a schedule for Program Year 3 is not available.  

Aggregate capacity in the state in limited to 75 MW per program year. The
capacity limit is divided among electric utilities by the commission each
program year. At least 40% of the total annual capacity limit must be
allocated to LMI projects.  

 
 