# Shared Solar Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-02 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-11 13:49:50 
 ***state** : Virginia 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Investor-Owned Utility, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2021-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Dominion Energy Virginia

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 5 MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : 150 MW

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Bill credit rate developed my Commission based on rate class.

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : 30% carve-out

 
 ## Summary : 
 In April 2020, the Virginia General Assembly enacted Chapters 1238 ([HB
1634](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+HB1634)) and 1264
([SB 629](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+SB629)) of the
2020 Virginia Acts of Assembly. In April 2021, the General Assembly enacted
Chapter 532 ([HB 1855](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-
bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532&212+ful+CHAP0532)) during special session I.
The chapters authorize the shared solar program in the service territory of
Dominion Energy Virginia with an aggregate capacity maximum of 150 MW. Once
low-income subscriptions total 45 MW, an additional 50 MW of aggregate
capacity may be authorized.  

Subscriptions are administered by a Subscriber Organization. For facilities
with a nameplate capacity greater than 500 kW, the Subscriber Organization
must be licensed by the State Corporation Commission. Smaller facilities may
be granted an exemption certificate by the Commission.  

Becoming a Licensed Subscriber Organization is accomplished by (1) completing
a business entity registration, (2) obtaining a license as a Subscriber
Organization, (3) Registering with the utility company, and (4) obtaining a
minimum of three customer subscribers.  

See the License Application Selection
[Guide](https://www.scc.virginia.gov/pages/Application-Selection-Guide)  

 
 