# Multi-family shared solar program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-02 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-11 13:46:30 
 ***state** : Virginia 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2021-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Dominion Energy Virginia Old Dominion Power

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 3 MW (5 MW total for contiguous locations owned by a single entity)

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Bill credit rate determined annually by Commission based on customer rate
class.

 
 ## Summary : 
 In April 2020, the Virginia General Assembly enacted Chapters 1187 ([SB
710](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+SB710)), 1188 ([HB
572](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+HB572)), 1188 ([HB
1184](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+HB1184)), 1239 ([HB
1647](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+sum+HB1647)) of the
2020 Virginia Acts of Assembly. The chapters authorize a multi-family shared
solar program in the service territories of Dominion Energy Virginia and Old
Dominion Power.  

System size is limited to 3 MW, up to 5 MW cumulative for systems on
contiguous locations owned by the same entity.  

Subscriptions are administered by a Subscriber Organization. For facilities
with a nameplate capacity greater than 500 kW, the Subscriber Organization
must be licensed by the State Corporation Commission. Smaller facilities may
be granted an exemption certificate by the Commission.  
  
Becoming a Licensed Subscriber Organization is accomplished by (1) completing
a business entity registration, (2) obtaining a license as a Subscriber
Organization, (3) Registering with the utility company, and (4) obtaining a
minimum of three customer subscribers.  
  
See the License Application Selection Guide  

 
 