# NYSERDA -  Buildings of Excellence Competition For Demonstration Projects  (RFP 3925 – Rd3) 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-11 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-01-31 21:39:42 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-04-07 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : NYSERDA 
 ***funding Source*** : System Benefits Charge collected from ratepayers by utility service providers 
 ***budget*** : $8 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : NOTE: THIS PROGRAM IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE  
up to $1,000,000 in direct funding

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Proposals will be accepted from owners or developers for multifamily new
construction, gut rehabilitation, and adaptive re-use projects. To be
eligible, a project must exclude all fossil fuels from the building systems
and equipment. Building systems and equipment at a minimum refers to building
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), domestic hot water (DHW),
kitchen, laundry, and other appliances.

 
 ## Summary : 
 **NOTE: THIS PROGRAM IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE**

The Buildings of Excellence Competition is a competitive grant program for new
construction, gut rehabilitation, and adaptive re-use of exceptional
multifamily projects in New York State. Eligible projects must be completed
within the service territories of the following utilities: Central Hudson Gas
& Elec Corp, Consolidated Edison Co-NY Inc, New York State Elec & Gas Corp,
National Grid, Orange & Rockland Utils Inc, Rochester Gas & Electric Corp.

The Buildings of Excellence Competition (the Competition) seeks proposals for
demonstration projects that will achieve carbon neutral performance while
being beautiful and functional, providing healthy, safe, comfortable, and
resilient living spaces for their occupants. Successful proposers will also
demonstrate how they will be profitable for the project’s developers and
owners and demonstrate realistic cost reductions in design and construction of
carbon neutral buildings. The Competition aims to accelerate the design,
development, construction, and operation of carbon neutral multifamily
buildings that are more resilient while integrating co-benefits for occupants
such as controlled and healthy indoor air quality, as well as exceptional
comfort. Successful proposers must demonstrate how their projects’ energy use
and per capita carbon emissions will be substantively reduced, while
increasing building resiliency, including passive survivability, in a manner
that can be replicated at scale. The Competition will identify and select
proposals for projects that demonstrate the greatest potential for success and
replication in the market. Selected projects are eligible to receive up to
$1,000,000 in direct funding (based on project size) as well as support for
initiatives focused on broad marketing and public awareness.

Proposers must demonstrate (1) architectural design quality and innovation,
(2) how their project will generate interest in and demand for the
construction of carbon neutral and resilient buildings, and (3) their
commitment to share information related to the project’s design, costs, and
performance used to support the decision-making processes employed to achieve
the desired outcomes. This third issuance of the Competition will focus on
mid- to high-rise multifamily and mixed-use projects that are at an early
stage in their design and development cycle. Projects intended to primarily
serve market-rate occupancy will be evaluated and considered for award
separately from projects primarily intended to serve Low- to Moderate-Income
(LMI) households, or projects located in disadvantaged communities.

**For more information, please view:**

  * [Buildings of Excellence Competition](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Multifamily-Buildings-of-Excellence/About)
  * [Buildings of Excellence Competition Request for Proposal (RFP) 3928-RD3](https://portal.nyserda.ny.gov/CORE_Solicitation_Detail_Page?SolicitationId=a0rt000000WH8uA)

 
 