# NYSERDA – Buildings of Excellence Early Design Support  (RFP 3925 – D) 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-11 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-08-30 19:06:13 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-04-07 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : NYSERDA 
 ***funding Source*** : System Benefits Charge collected from ratepayers by utility service providers 
 ***budget*** : $4 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Up to $1.50/square foot in direct funding up to a per project cap of $100,000

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $100,000 per project

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: Applications are accepted on a continuous basis until June 28, 2024
or until funds are fully committed, whichever occurs first._**

The Buildings of Excellence Early Design Support Request for Proposal (the
“Early Design Support RFP”) seeks proposals for qualified design firms that
will provide early-stage design support for new construction, adaptive reuse,
and gut rehabilitation multifamily projects that will be clean and resilient
and achieve carbon neutral-ready performance while being beautiful and
functional, providing healthy, safe, comfortable, and resilient living spaces
for their occupants.

The Early Design Support RFP is part of and in support of the larger Buildings
of Excellence Competition (the “Competition”) which includes the Buildings of
Excellence Competition RFP ([RFP 3928 -
Rd4](https://portal.nyserda.ny.gov/CORE_Solicitation_Detail_Page?SolicitationId=a0rt000000WH8uAAAT&_gl=1*58whbq*_ga*MTg0OTc0NjI3NC4xNjY2NzI4OTM4*_ga_DRYJB34TXH*MTY5MzQyMDc4MC4xNjUuMS4xNjkzNDIwNzk4LjAuMC4w)).
Successful proposers to the Early Design Support RFP must demonstrate how
their design firm has engaged with prior projects and will engage with
projects in the future to substantially reduce energy use, while increasing
building resiliency, successfully integrating architectural design attributes,
and improving health, comfort, safety, and productivity for occupants, in a
manner that can be replicated at scale. The Early Design Support RFP intends
to identify and select project proposals from design firm patterns that
demonstrate the greatest potential for success and replication in the market.
Through this Early Design Support RFP, selected design firms are eligible to
receive up to $1.50/square foot in direct funding, up to a per project-cap of
$100,000, for early-stage clean, resilient, and carbon neutral-ready design
support, as well as support for initiatives focused on broad marketing and
public awareness.

Proposers must demonstrate (1) competence in clean, resilient, and carbon
neutral-ready design that is coupled with architectural design quality and
innovation, (2) ability to deliver high quality and functional, clean,
resilient, and carbon neutral-ready multifamily projects at competitive costs,
with superior performance, (3) how their projects generate interest in and
demand for the design, construction, and occupation of clean, resilient, and
carbon neutral-ready buildings, and (4) their commitment to share information
related to the project’s design, costs, and performance to support the
decision-making processes employed to achieve the desired outcomes.

To be deemed carbon-neutral ready a project must exclude all fossil fuels from
the building systems and equipment. Building systems and equipment refers to
at a minimum; building heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC),
domestic hot water (DHW), kitchen, laundry, and other appliances. Projects
that rely on a fossil fuel-fired generator for emergency use only, or projects
which are served by an off-site fossil fuel-fired central heating plant, may
at NYSERDA’s sole discretion, qualify as carbon neutral-ready if fossil fuels
are excluded from all other building systems and equipment.

  

**For more information, please view:**

  * [Buildings of Excellence Competition](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Multifamily-Buildings-of-Excellence/About)
  * [Buildings of Excellence Early Design Support (RFP) 3928-D](https://portal.nyserda.ny.gov/CORE_Solicitation_Detail_Page?SolicitationId=a0r8z0000005MHF)

 
 