# NYSERDA - New Construction - Housing 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-11 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-01-31 21:39:46 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2021-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2022-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : NYSERDA 
 ***funding Source*** : System Benefits Charge collected from ratepayers by utility service providers 
 ***budget*** : $23,744,000 initially available 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : NOTE: THIS PROGRAM IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE  
Varies by project size, performance threshold, and household income

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Applications will be accepted for new construction, gut rehabilitation, and
adaptive re-use projects. To be eligible, a project must exclude all fossil
fuels from the building systems and equipment. Building systems and equipment
at a minimum refers to building heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
(HVAC), domestic hot water (DHW), kitchen, laundry, and other appliances.  
  
Applicants must engage a pre-qualified Primary Energy Consultant to ensure the
project's design and as-built condition meet the required performance.

 
 ## Summary : 
 **NOTE: THIS PROGRAM IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE**

The New Construction – Housing (NC-Housing) Program supports the design,
development, and construction of carbon neutral buildings, reducing energy
consumption and per capita carbon emissions while ensuring the buildings are
resilient. Through NC-Housing, NYSERDA offers financial incentives and
technical support for the new construction, gut rehabilitation, or adaptive
re-use of residential and mixed-use buildings, inclusive of single-family
homes, multi-unit developments, multifamily buildings, residence halls,
dormitories, and congregate living facilities, exclusive of nursing homes. The
incentive structure is intended to promote increased levels of performance
while encouraging solutions that result in healthy environments for the
buildings’ occupants. NYSERDA intends to support replicable and integrated
design solutions focused on cost optimization and financing strategies that
reward reductions in cost of construction, operational costs, and perceived
risks while strengthening the capacity of clean energy professionals to
deliver design and construction services. Use of solar photovoltaic generation
and other renewable energy systems, as well as ground source heat pumps and
other innovative technologies, are encouraged. The Applicant is expected to
hire a NYSERDA-approved Primary Energy Consultant to act as the primary
technical resource for their participation. NC-Housing supports New York
State’s housing regulatory agencies in their efforts to secure efficient,
durable, resilient, and healthy housing.  

These incentives are available in the service territories of the following
utilities: Central Hudson Gas & Elec Corp, Consolidated Edison Co-NY Inc, New
York State Elec & Gas Corp, National Grid, Orange & Rockland Utils Inc,
Rochester Gas & Electric Corp.

For more information, please view:

  * [New Construction - Housing program website](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Low-Rise-Residential)
  * [Program Opportunity Notice (PON) 4337](https://portal.nyserda.ny.gov/CORE_Solicitation_Detail_Page?SolicitationId=a0rt000001AZT26AAH)

 
 