# Adjustable Block Program (Illinois Shines) 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-14 13:54:49 
 ***state** : Illinois 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Solar Renewable Energy Credit Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Schools, Federal Government, Multifamily Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Energy Solutions 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies by program type and year.

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Up to 5 MW

 
 ## Summary : 
 Information for this program is taken from the [Illinois Shines Program
Guidebook](https://illinoisshines.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/04/PY2024-25-Program-Guidebook-4-18-24-FINAL.pdf) and the
[2024 Long-Term Renewable Resources Procurement
Plan](https://ipa.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/ipa/documents/2024-long-
term-plan-20-oct-2023-.pdf)

The Illinois Shines Program is a state-administered solar incentive program
created to facilitate the development of new photovoltaic distributed
generation and community solar projects through the issuance of renewable
energy credit delivery contracts. At least 50% of Illinois's solar REC
procurement target must be supplied through this program.

Illinois Shines contains six program categories: 1) Small DG (less than or
equal to 25 kW); 2) Large DG (greater than 25 kW up to 5 MW); 3) Traditional
Community Solar; 4) Public Schools; 5) Community-Driven Community Solar; and
6) Equity-Eligible Contractors.

Blocks available through the program have historically been divided between
Group A (projects located in the service territories of Ameren Illinois,
MidAmerican, Mt. Carmel Public Utility, and rural electric cooperatives and
municipal utilities located in MISO) and Group B (projects located in the
service territories of ComEd, and rural electric cooperatives and municipal
utilities located in PJM). In the 2024 Long-Term Renewable Resources
Procurement Plan, the Illinois Power Agency (IPA) has proposed eliminating the
separate groups for the Small DG and Large DG program categories.

Blocks open at the start of each program year (June 1) and remain open until
annual capacity is exhausted; projects that apply within a program year but
when capacity is exhausted are placed on a waitlist.

Although Illinois Shines is a REC purchase program, capacity is allocated
through MW rather than annual MWh delivered. The total annual capacity for the
program was 667 MW in 2022-2023 and 2023-2024; it was increased to 800 MW for
the 2024-2025 program year.

**History**

In December 2016 the Illinois General Assembly passed Public Act 99-0906,
known as the Future Energy Jobs Act, which took effect on June 1, 2017. This
statute required the development and ongoing operation of an “Adjustable
Block” program. This program, also known as the Illinois Shines program, is
intended to facilitate the development of new community solar and distributed
photovoltaic generation projects, and must feature a “transparent schedule of
prices and quantities” for RECs “to enable the photovoltaic market to scale up
and for renewable energy credit prices to adjust at a predictable rate over
time.” Public Act 99-0906 provided for three program categories, 1) Small
Distributed Generation (behind the meter projects up to 10 kW AC); 2) Large
Distributed Generation (behind the meter projects over 10 kW AC up to 2 MW
AC); and 3) Community Solar.

Public Act 102-0662 (“P.A. 102-0662”), known as the Climate and Equitable Jobs
Act, became effective on September 15, 2021. This sweeping energy legislation
amended the IPA Act as well as other Illinois laws that affect the Program and
its requirements, thus significantly modifying the Illinois Shines program.

First, P.A. 102-0662 expanded the number of project categories in the Program
from three to six. The three additional categories are: Community-Driven
Community Solar, Public Schools, and the Equity Eligible Contractor category.

Additionally, P.A. 102-0662 provided that most projects that participate in
the Program were now subject to requirements under the Illinois Prevailing
Wage Act. This means individuals engaged in the construction of applicable
projects submitted to the Program must be paid the relevant prevailing wage.
Prevailing wage is a minimum compensation level set by the Illinois Department
of Labor (“IDOL”) by county for construction activities related to public
works.

P.A. 102-0662 introduced new equity provisions for the Program. This statute
introduced the concept of an Equity Eligible Person, an Equity Eligible
Contractor, and the Minimum Equity Standard, all under an umbrella called the
Equity Accountability System. The Minimum Equity Standard (“MES”) requires
that starting June 1, 2023, 10% of the workforce on projects developed for the
Program be made up of equity eligible persons, with an increase of this
percentage to 30% by 2030. All participants in the Program must comply with
the MES on an annual basis.

Additionally, P.A. 102-0662 shifted the Program away from a cascading block
program to an annual block program. Annual blocks of capacity are released for
the Program each year on the first day of the Program year, which aligns with
the Delivery year. As such, Program years span from June 1st through May 31st
of the following calendar year. Once annual blocks of capacity are full, new
capacity is not released until the subsequent Program year.

P.A. 102-0662 also requires the Agency to “collect data from program
applicants in order to track and improve equitable distribution of benefits
across Illinois communities for all procurements the Agency conducts.” The IPA
specifically requires the Agency to collect certain information, including but
not limited to the racial or ethnic identities and geographic residencies of
employees and agents of Program applicants and participants.

The Agency has determined that a two-part data collection process will be
utilized to collect demographic and geographic information required under the
Act; that is, information will be collected both through project applications
and through the annual report submitted by Approved Vendors. In order to
facilitate the ongoing tracking and collection of information from Approved
Vendors’ employees and subcontractors, the Part II application will now
collect information on the race, gender, and residential ZIP code of all
employees or employees of subcontractors involved in the
construction/installation of a particular project and the approximate hours
worked. Approved Vendors will also be required to indicate whether any of the
workers involved in the construction/installation of the project are graduates
from the Solar Training Pipeline Program, Craft Apprentice Program, Multi-
Cultural Job Training Program, or another job training program. As additional
workforce development programs established by Public Act 102-0662 come online,
they will be added to the options available for selection.

 
 