# Illinois Solar for All Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-14 13:58:19 
 ***state** : Illinois 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Solar Renewable Energy Credit Program 
 ***sector*** : Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, Multifamily Residential 
 ***budget*** : $66,500,000 annually 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies by program and year.

 
 ## Summary : 
 Information for this program is taken from the [2024 Long-Term Renewable
Resources Procurement
Plan](https://ipa.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/ipa/documents/2024-long-
term-plan-20-oct-2023-.pdf)

As part of its [Renewable Portfolio
Standard](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/584), Illinois
operates two SREC purchase programs to support deployment of solar
photovoltaic generation.

By offering more generous REC prices than the [Illinois Shines
program](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/22441/adjustable-
block-program-illinois-shines), the Illinois Solar for All program incents
low-income residents (as well as non-profit and public facilities) to
participate in solar projects, whether as a system owner, community solar
project subscriber, or system host.

The Illinois Solar for All Program consists of four sub-programs: the **Low-
Income Single-Family and Small Multifamily Solar Incentive** (also referred to
as "**Residential Solar (Small)** "); the **Low-Income Community Solar Project
Initiative** (referred to as "**Community Solar** "); the **Non-Profit and
Public Facilities** program; and the **Low-Income****Multifamily Solar
Incentive** (referred to as "**Residential Solar (Large)** ").

The Illinois Solar for All Program also offers incentives through the **Bright
Neighborhoods Initiative** in select areas. The
[initiative](https://www.illinoissfa.com/announcements/2024/06/illinois-solar-
for-all-releases-bright-neighborhoods-report-and-request-for-stakeholder-
feedback/) provides solar panels at no upfront cost to participants in West
Garfield Park (Chicago), Waukegan, and the Carbondale-Marion area. Enrollment
was open through March 31, 2024. Illinois Solar for All is recommending design
changes for a re-launch of the Bright Neighborhoods initiative for the new
program year.

 
 