# Community Remote Net Metering Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-10 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-10 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Rhode Island 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Office of Energy Resources 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Rhode Island Energy

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 10 MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : 30 MW

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Retail rate

 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note:[H.B.
5853](http://webserver.rilegislature.gov/BillText/BillText23/HouseText23/H5853A.pdf)
and [S.B.
684](http://webserver.rilegislature.gov/BillText/BillText23/SenateText23/S0684A.pdf)
of 2023 require the Office of Energy Resources to redesign the community
remote net metering program to integrate the changes made by the bill and to
include a C&I anchor tenant up to 50% of the project. The other 50% of a
project must be allocated to LMI residents, residents living in disadvantaged
communities, or residents living in environmental justice communities. The
Office must file a program proposal and benefit-cost analysis with the Public
Utilities Commission, who will then establish a docket to discuss the proposal
and rule on the changes within 150 days. If a program is approved, it would
have an annual 20 MW cap for two years, totaling 40 MW. Eligible systems must
be sited outside of core forests, except for preferred sites.**_  

In 2016, [H.B.
8354](http://webserver.rilin.state.ri.us/BillText/BillText16/HouseText16/H8354A.pdf)
expanded Rhode Island's net metering rules to include community solar. Rhode
Island's [Renewable Energy Fund
](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/461/rhode-island-
renewable-energy-fund-riref)has provided community renewable incentives before
community solar was officially enshrined.  
  
The community net metered system can be owned by one of the participating
customers, or be financed by a third party through lease arrangements or
power/credit purchase agreements. The total amount of community net metering
is capped at 30 MW until the end of 2018, after which the PUC may decide to
expand or modify the aggregate amount after administrative process. On
December 2016, the PUC [determined
](https://ripuc.ri.gov/eventsactions/docket/4670-CleanEconomy-
Ord22641_12-29-16.pdf)that the public housing authorities are considered
public entities and are not subject to the 30 MW cap in the community net
metering program. Municipal Collaborative facilities, educational
institutions, federal government, hospitals, and non-profits are also exempt
from this cap. Active enabling legislation is required to expand the program
past the 30 MW cap; the cap was met in 2019.  

 
 