# PECO - Commercial Charger Rebate Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-05 14:51:24 
 ***state** : Pennsylvania 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-04-01 04:00:00 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : 50% of make-ready costs, 75% of make ready costs in Environmental Justice
Areas

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $2,000, $3,000 in Environmental Justice Areas

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Make-Ready Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 50.0 % of cost 
 
 ## Summary : 
 PECO offers rebates on Commercial Electric Vehicle Level 2 Charging
Infrastructure as a pilot program. Applications will be accepted starting
April 1, 2022.  

The "Base Rebate" is 50% of make-ready costs, up to $2,000 or 50% of make-
ready costs, for level 2 charging infrastructure.  

An "Enhanced Rebate" is available for projects located in Environmental
Justice Areas and is 75% of make-ready costs, up to $3,000.  

On October 16, 2023, PECO launched the "Public Benefit Program," which is
designed to incentivize electric vehicle charging projects for a broader range
of public purposes and charging technologies. Incentives available under this
program are capped at 50% of the cost of equipment, installation, and make
ready work for the project. Transit authorities installing DCFCs with a
capacity of at least 250 kW per Charging Port are subject to a maximum
incentive of $500,000 per project site. All other eligible customers are
subject to a maximum  
incentive of $60,000.  

 
 