# Community Distributed Generation 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-14 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-28 21:32:39 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : Not Addressed

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Value of Distributed Energy Resources (VDER) -- changes monthly, but will
always be lower than the retail rate

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : Inclusive Community Solar Adder (ICSA) and Solar for All

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Introduction_**

In July 2015 the NY Public Service Commission (PSC) issued an order that
established a Community Net-metering in the State. The community net-metering
allows multiple customers to subscribe to and receive credits for the
electricity produced from off-site renewable generation facilities. This
policy makes it possible for renters, low-income residents, and homeowners to
receive credits for renewable energy who previously could not install a
renewable generation facility in their homes.

In general a community energy project requires a minimum of 10 members. In
March 2017, the commission allowed a waiver for a minimum ten member
requirement for community distributed generation projects that are located on
the site of a property serving multiple residential or non-residential
customers. No more than 40% of the generation may serve large demand-metered
(25 kW or greater) subscribers. Each subscriber must be allocated at least 1
MWh/year (not exceeding their historic average annual consumption). The
maximum size of the community energy system is limited to 2 MW. Any single
entity, including facility developer, ESCO, municipal entity, business, non-
profit, LLC, partnership, or other form of business or civic association can
be the sponsor of the community energy facility. The sponsor will be
responsible for building and operating the facility.

Implementation of the program is divided into two phases. First phase of the
program will last till April 30, 2016, during which the community net metering
will serve as an introductory phase. During this period, the projects will be
limited to siting distributed generation in areas where it provides greatest
locational benefits to the larger grid, and in areas that promote low-income
customer participation. The second phase will begin on May 1st 2016 when the
community net metering projects will be fully implemented throughout the other
utility service territories.

  

** _Credit_**

Compensation for energy created by distributed energy resources in New York is
based on the [Value Stack](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/NY-
Sun/Contractors/Value-of-Distributed-Energy-Resources). The Value Stack
compensates projects based on when and where they provide electricity to the
grid, compensation is in the form of bill credits. The value of the credit is
determined by several factors, including energy value (LBMP), capacity value
(ICAP), environmental value (E), demand reduction value (DRV), and locational
system relief value (LSRV).

  

** _Incentives_**

Certain Community Distributed Generation projects may also have a market
transition credit (MTC) or community credit (CC) which recognize the benefits
that DERs provide to the grid and society. The CC incentive, the successor to
the MTC, provides a $/kWh that is locked in for 25 years. The CC rate varies
based on location and availability.

The [Community Adder](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/NY-
Sun/Contractors/Dashboards-and-incentives/Community-Adder) incentive is
offered for a limited number of MW projects that were developed in areas where
the MTC and CC had already been fully allocated. Adder rates and availability
are based on the project’s utility service territory. Projects in PSEG-Long
Island service territory are not eligible for this adder. As of November 30,
2022, the Con Ed Community Adder Block 1 is temporarily suspended. As of
February 28, 2022, the Upstate Community Adder Block 1 has been fully
allocated. However, NY-SUN is conducting an analysis of all current market
conditions and costs, as well as the impact of the IRA on community solar
project economics. Updates on additional blocks and incentive rates will be
announced after this analysis is complete.

  

**_LMI Provisions_**

[The Inclusive Community Solar Adder (ICSA)](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
Programs/NY-Sun/Contractors/Dashboards-and-incentives/Inclusive-Community-
Solar-Adder) is designed to support CDG solar projects serving low-to-moderate
income (LMI) subscribers, affordable housing, and other facilities serving
disadvantaged communities. The goal of this adder is to increase access to
community solar and resulting electric bill savings for LMI households and to
reduce operating costs for affordable housing and nonprofit entities serving
disadvantaged communities. As of February 28, 2023, NYSERDA is revising the
ICSA and is not accepting any applications.

The [Solar for All](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/NY-Sun/Solar-for-
Your-Home/Community-Solar/Solar-for-All) program is a utility bill assistance
program that benefits homeowners and renters who may not be able to access
solar energy. Eligible subscribers include those who rent or own their own
home, are a veteran receiving disability benefits, are on a fixed income, earn
minimum wage, and/or participate in HEAP, SNAP, TANF, or other electric bill
assistance programs.

 
 