# Shared Clean Energy Facility (SCEF) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-10 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Connecticut 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***administrator*** : Eversource and United Illuminating 
 ***additional technologies*** : , Thermal Energy from a Renewable Source 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Eversource  
United Illuminating

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 100 to 5,000 kW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : 50 MW per year

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Program uses an opt-out model for 80% of project output, with utilities
directly enrolling subscribers. Bill credit rate is 2.5 cents per kWh, and
monthly payments are equalized based on annual estimates.

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : 20% carve-out for low-income residents. 60% carve-out for combination of low-
income customers, moderate-income customers, and low-income service
organizations.

 
 ## Summary : 
 Residents or businesses can choose to invest in, or lease, a renewable energy
system installation on the rooftops of their homes or businesses, or on their
properties. However, some Connecticut residents and businesses are either not
able to, or elect not to, invest in or lease an individual property
installation for a variety of reasons (e.g., high installation costs,
unsuitable rooftop orientation, shaded property, or because they rent instead
of own their properties). Subscription to a shared clean energy facility
(SCEF) provides an option that can be used to overcome such barriers, thereby
expanding access to renewable energy to more households and businesses in the
state. A SCEF enables multiple customers to benefit directly from that
facility's energy production. The SCEF program is authorized by Public Act No.
[18-50](https://www.cga.ct.gov/2018/ACT/pa/pdf/2018PA-00050-R00SB-00009-PA.pdf)
and allows Connecticut customers to participate in the renewables market when
their home or facility cannot support renewable energy production. The SCEF
program is a six-year competitive procurement program that will support up to
150 MW of new clean power generation in Connecticut; Public Act No. 22-14
expanded the program to 50 MW a year, up from 25 MW a year, creating a new
program total of 225 MW.  
  
Selected SCEF program generators will be provided with a 20-year tariff term
from either Eversouce or United Illuminating (UI). SCEF projects will result
in credits that will be applied to the bills of participating electric
customers at no cost to those customers. Contact Eversource's or UI's SCEF
representatives for more information.  

 
 