# Community Renewable Energy Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-21 18:58:24 
 ***state** : Hawaii 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2015-06-08 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Hawaii Public Utilities Commission 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.  
Hawai'i Electric Light Company, Inc.  
Maui Electric Company, Limited

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : Phase 2:  
250 kW minimum  
No stated maximum, but the following system sizes will be allowed to proceed
through the RFP process on the respective island without further regulatory
review:  
Oahu: up to 5 MW  
Maui and Hawaii Islands: up to 2.5 MW  

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : Phase 1: 8 MW  
Phase 2: 235 MW

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Oahu - $0.15/kWh  
Hawaii Island - $0.15/kWh  
Maui - $0.165/kWh  
Molokai - $0.225/kWh  
Lanai - $0.26/kWh  

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : Minimum one uncapped LMI project each on the islands of Oahu, Hawaii, and
Maui.

 
 ## Summary : 
 Senate Bill 1050, enacted in June 2015, created the Hawaii Community-Based
Renewable Energy (CBRE) program. The legislation established the broad
parameters for the program, and charged the Public Utilities Commission with
further fleshing out the rules and approving CBRE tariffs filed by the
utilities.  

**Phase 1 CBRE**

In December 2017, the Commission
[adopted](https://shareus11.springcm.com/Public/DownloadNative/25256/bac8d531-790d-ee11-b83b-48df377ef808/9fa2ee97-670e-ee11-b83b-48df377ef808)
a Phase 1 CBRE Framework and directed the utilities to file tariffs consistent
with the framework. The framework adopted different capacity allocations and
credit rates for the different islands:

  1. Oahu - 5.0 MW, $0.15/kWh  

  2. Hawaii Island - 1.0 MW, $0.15/kWh  

  3. Maui - 1.0 MW, $0.165/kWh  

  4. Molokai - 0.5 MW, $0.225/kWh  

  5. Lanai - 0.5 MW, $0.26/kWh

Phase 1 was launched in June 2018.

**Phase 2 CBRE**

In April 2020, the Commission
[adopted](https://shareus11.springcm.com/Public/DownloadNative/25256/05b20f0d-790d-ee11-b83b-48df377ef808/0b5a8173-520e-ee11-b83b-48df377ef808)
a Phase 2 CBRE Framework. Phase 2 features an increased aggregate capacity cap
from 8 MW in Phase 1 to 235 MW. It also includes a requirement for three
dedicated LMI projects, one on Oahu, one on Hawaii Island, and one on Maui.
The order also set aside 30 MW of the total program capacity for projects
smaller than 250 kW, and directed HECO to develop a simplified tariff for
these projects. For the first tranche of small projects, the credit rates will
remain the same as for Phase 1: $0.15/kWh for Oahu and Hawaii, and $0.165/kWh
for Maui. Larger projects will be chosen by HECO through RFPs, and subscriber
organizations and project developers will propose their own credit rates in
their bids.

  

 
 