# Non-Residential Renewable Energy Solutions 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-16 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-14 16:41:45 
 ***state** : Connecticut 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Net Metering 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2022-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2028-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Public Utilities Regulatory Authority 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Investor-owned utilities

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : Small: 0 - 200 kW Medium: 200 kW - 1 MW Large: 1 MW - 5 MW Low-Emission: 0 - 5
MW Virtual Net Metering: 3 MW

 
 ***Aggregate Capacity Limit*** : MW caps are annual. Unused capacity is rolled over to the next year's
equivalent size category. Eversource: Small: 24 MW Medium: 25 MW Large: 31 MW
Low-Emission: 8 MW United Illuminating: Small: 6 MW Medium: 8 MW Large: 6 MW
Low-Emission: 2 MW

 
 ***Net Excess Generation*** : Carried over as a kWh credit for one year; Reimbursed to customer at the
avoided cost of wholesale power at the end of the year (March 31).

 
 ***Ownership of Renewable Energy Credits*** : Customer owns RECs, but are automatically sold to the utility

 
 ***Meter Aggregation*** : Yes (virtual net metering allowed for municipal, state, or agricultural
customers)

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_NOTE: In May 2018,[S.B.
9](https://www.cga.ct.gov/asp/cgabillstatus/cgabillstatus.asp?selBillType=Bill&which_year=2018&bill_num=9)
signed into law and made significant changes to the state's Renewable
Portfolio Standard and Net Metering policies. The law ends net metering to new
customers when the Virtual Net Metering, Low Emission Renewable Energy Credit,
and Zero Emission Renewable Energy Credit programs end on January 1, 2022. The
existing net metering customers will be grandfathered until December 2039.
Starting January 1, 2022, new customers will be able to select a buy-all,
sell-all option, or net billing option under the new Net-Tariff program. The
Public Utilities Regulator Authority (PURA) has finished implementing the new
program as the Non-Residential Renewable Energy Solutions Program. Residential
customers can participate in the [Residential Renewable Energy Solutions
Program](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/277)._**  

The Non-Residential Renewable Energy Solutions (NRES) Program is a successor
program to the Low Emission Renewable Energy Credit and Zero Emission
Renewable Energy Credit (LREC/ZREC) and Virtual Net Metering (VNM) programs,
with the objectives to foster the sustained, orderly development of the
state’s Class I renewable energy industry and to encourage the participation
by customers in underserved and environmental justice communities, among
others. The program is authorized to run for six (6) years and to select up to
120 MW of clean energy annually.

This is a six-year program that combines the state's previous Net Metering
program and Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) payments into one program.
Once a project has been approved, the incentive rate will not change for all
20 years of the contract. Customers can choose from one of two tariffs. The
netting tariff functions similarly to standard net metering: the customer's
usage and generation is netted, after which the customer's bill is calculated.
Under the buy-all tariff, the customer sells all of their generated energy to
the utility. Under both tariffs, all of a customer's generated RECs are sold
to the utility. The following bid price caps rates will be in effect for
eligible applications received in 2024:

**** | **Buy-All Rates $/MWh** | **** |   
  
---|---|---|---  
  
|  
|  
|  
|  
  
**Small** | $199.82 |   
|  
|  
  
**Medium** | $188.90 |   
|  
|  
  
**Large** | $145.97  
|  
|  
|  
  
**Low-Emission  
** | $159  
|  
|  
|  
  
  
The netting rate bid price cap is tied to the buy-all bid price caps. The sum
of the net present value retail rate and the price per REC cannot exceed the
equivalent buy-all cap for that size category. The precise calculation is:  

Bid Price Cap ($/REC) + NPV Retail Rate ($MWh)2 £ Buy-All price cap, dependent
on project category  
$0/MWh £ Bid Price Cap ($/REC)  

In addition, the cap will be calculated with both the previous year's prices x
2.5% retail rate escalation and the current year's prices; the chosen cap will
be whichever is less. The "current" calculations are based on the most recent
February solicitation and the August solicitation before it (e.g. for Year 3
calculations, the most recent February solicitation was Year 2's, while the
August one before that was Year 1's).  

Small projects -- 0 to 200 kW -- are offered a standard contract with a set
rate. Medium (200 kW to 1 MW), Large (1 to 5 MW), and Low-Emission (0 - 5 MW)
projects are awarded incentive agreements through a competitive solicitation
process. The upper size limit was originally 2 MW, but was increased to 5 MW
by [S.B.
176](https://www.cga.ct.gov/asp/cgabillstatus/cgabillstatus.asp?selBillType=Bill&which_year=2022&bill_num=176)
in 2022.  

The System Owner determines how the incentive will be divided between two
compensation options:

> a) A monthly monetary on-bill credit that will be applied to the customer's
> utility bill at the project site, and/or;

> b) A quarterly direct payment provided to a Tariff Payment Beneficiary.  
>

In the buy-all structure, the payments can be divided between these two
options, and the division percentages are selected at the time of bid
submission. Payments are made at the bid price, and the bidder chooses the
percentage of that payment to be an on-bill credit vs. a quarterly direct
payment. In the buy-all structure, the quarterly direct payments can be made
to the customer of record or a third party.  

  

In the netting structure, bill credits are calculated using the bid “energy”
price, and the quarterly direct payments to the tariff payment beneficiary are
paid at the bid “REC” price. The quarterly direct payments can be made to the
customer of record or a third party.

For more information, contact a Program Administrator, or view the FAQ
[here](http://www.dpuc.state.ct.us/dockcurr.nsf/8e6fc37a54110e3e852576190052b64d/902b610d01a20d34852587a7006d706a/$FILE/Attachment%203%20FAQ%20Document%20for%20NRES%20Program%20Final.pdf).

**Bid Preferences**  

There are three bid preferences available: a 20% bid preference for systems
located on landfills or brownfields, a 20% bid preferences for systems located
in an [Economically Distressed
Municipality](https://portal.ct.gov/DECD/Content/About_DECD/Research-and-
Publications/02_Review_Publications/Distressed-Municipalities), and a 30% bid
preference for carport or solar canopy systems. State, agricultural, and
municipal customers can receive the Distressed Municipality bid preference if
the beneficial account(s) is owned by the distressed municipality and the
distressed municipality is paying for the beneficial account's electric
service, even if the serviced building is not physically located in the
municipality. Carport/Solar Canopy systems can bid above the price cap, as
long as the bid preference brings the bid below the price cap; Small projects
cannot apply for the Carport/Solar Canopy bid preference.  

**REC Buyback**

Starting with the August 2024 solicitation, participants can buy their RECs
back from the utility at the Alternative Compliance Payment price.  

**Virtual Net Metering**  
  
Connecticut allows virtual net metering for state, municipal, and agricultural
customers. A virtual net metering facility, must generate electricity using
either Class I or Class III* resources from facilities of up to 3 MW. Systems
can be owned by the customer, leased by the customers, or owned by a third-
party on a customer's property. The system may serve the electricity needs of
the municipal host customer and additional beneficial accounts as long as the
beneficial accounts and host account are within the same electric distribution
company's service territory. A municipal or state customer can host up to 5
additional municipal or state accounts, and 5 additional non-state or
-municipal buildings if those accounts are critical facilities** and connected
to a microgrid. An agricultural customer can host up to 10 beneficial accounts
as long as those accounts either use electricity for agricultural purposes, or
are municipal or noncommercial critical facilities. In addition, all virtual
net metering hosts can aggregate all of the meters owned by that customer
host.  
  
If a host customer produces more electricity than it consumes, the excess
electricity will be credited to the beneficial accounts for the next billing
period at the retail rate against the generation service component and a
declining percentage of the transmission and distribution charges that are
billed to the beneficial accounts. The declining percentages are as follows:  
  
First year of commercial operation: 80% of transmission and distribution
charges  
Second year of commercial operation: 60% of transmission and distribution
charges  
Third year of commercial operation and after: 40% of transmission and
distribution charges.  
  
Excess credits rollover monthly for one year. The electric distribution
company is to compensate the municipal or state host customer for excess
virtual net metering credits remaining at the end of the calendar, if any, at
the retail generation rate and the above declining percentage of transmission
and distribution charges. HB 5496 enacted on June 2016 requires that the
virtual net metering facilities must be operational within 18 months from the
date Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) issues final
permit.  
  
_*Class III resources are defined as "the electricity output from combined
heat and power systems with an operating efficiency level of no less than
fifty per cent that are part of customer-side distributed resources developed
at commercial and industrial facilities in this state on or after January 1,
2006, a waste heat recovery system installed on or after April 1, 2007, that
produces electrical or thermal energy by capturing preexisting waste heat or
pressure from industrial or commercial processes, or the electricity savings
created in this state from conservation and load management programs begun on
or after January 1, 2006."  
  
**Critical Facilities are defined as a hospital, police station, fire station,
water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant, public shelter, correctional
facility, production and transmission facilities of a television or radio
station, commercial area of a municipality, municipal center, or any other
area identified by the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection as
critical._  

 
 