# Community Renewable Energy Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-29 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-05 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Vermont 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2017-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : All electric utilities within the State of Vermont.

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 500 kW, 1 MW for schools and school districts

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Blended residential retail.

 
 ## Summary : 
 Brought into Vermont law through [30 V.S.A. ยง
8010](https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/30/089/08010), Chapter
89 of Title 30, "Renewable Energy Programs", details the regulations
surrounding self-generation and net-metering in the state of Vermont. This
bill delegates net-metering rulemaking to the Vermont Public Utilities
Commission (VPUC), who made effective their net-metering rules via Rule 5.100
on January 1st, 2017. Group net-metering systems and the processes needed to
obtain a Vermont Certificate of Public Good (CPG) pursuant to 30 V.S.A. ยง 8010
are discussed.  

Group net-metering systems are defined as a net-metering system serving more
than one customer, or a customer with multiple electric meters, located within
the service area of the same retail electricity provider. Net-metering
facilities may not exceed 500 kW capacity and must employ either a renewable
energy source or a qualified micro-combined heat and power system of 20 kW or
less. For schools and school district customers, the cumulative capacity limit
may not exceed 1 MW. Renewable energy means energy produced using a technology
that relies on a resource that is consumed at or below its natural
regeneration rate. Group net-metering systems may be directly interconnected
or not.  

For both interconnected and non-interconnected group net-metering systems, a
blended residential rate is used for bill crediting. For non-interconnected
systems, if the electricity produced by the net-metering system exceeds the
electricity consumed, participants have credited to their bill their
respective allocation multiplied by their applicable blended residential
retail rate. For interconnected group net-metering, the applicable blended
residential retail rate multiplied by the kWh produced is allocated to
customers' bills. Neither may use these bill credits toward non-bypassable
charges. Credits remaining on group members' bills after application to all
charges considered non-bypassable will be tracked, applied, or carried
forward. Accumulated bill credits must be used within 12 months from the month
it is earned. Additional credit may be obtained through adjustors, which are
influenced by site selection and renewable energy credit (REC) ownership.  

Group net-metering system applicants must determine at the time of filing with
the VPUC whether or not RECs are to be transferred to the electric company.
The action upon filing is irreversible, and the electric company must retire
any RECs transferred to it by a net-metering customer. If RECs are transferred
to the electric company, REC adjustors will not be applicable for a group's
bill credit.  

See the [Vermont Energy & Climate Action
Network](https://vecan.net/iniatives/community-solar-toolbox/) (VECAN) for
further information surrounding community renewable energy in Vermont.  

 
 