# Oregon Community Solar Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-22 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-28 17:44:24 
 ***state** : Oregon 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***administrator*** : Oregon Public Utility Commission 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 3MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : Initial capacity tier: 2.5% of each investor-owned utility’s 2016 system peak,
estimated to be 160 MW collectively  
The Commission may authorize additional tiers beyond the initial capacity tier

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Retail rate was used for the first half of the initial capacity tier.  
For the second tier, all customers will receive a 2% escalator annually from
the retail rate and non-residential customers will receive 90% of the Tier 1
rate.

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : At least 10 percent of the total generating capacity of the Community Solar
Program must be allocated exclusively for use by low-income residential
customers. The respective bill credits associated with this allocation must be
linked to discrete low-income residential customers.

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Oregon Community Solar Program was first introduced through [Oregon
Administrative Rules (OAR)
860-088](https://secure.sos.state.or.us/oard/displayDivisionRules.action;JSESSIONID_OARD=dQCUvbSnR7GM1ew-
aCHnoIt7-x67Wv5wsaGaXQAwRdAheiSMz7gj!-1441486436?selectedDivision=4090). This
rule's creation was directed under 2016 Senate Bill 1547, with administrative
authority being given to the Public Utility Commission. Community Solar
projects may only be approved if ownership is demonstrated for 50 percent or
more of project nameplate capacity. Additionally, community solar projects
must have a subscription minimum of 5 persons and not exceed 3 megawatts in
nameplate capacity. Projects must be located in the Oregon service territory
of an electric utility, with at least 10 percent of the project generating
capacity allocated exclusively to low-income residential customers. A single
participant's ownership or subscription interest may exceed neither 40 percent
of the project nor the retail electricity customer’s average annual
consumption of electricity.

Start-up costs for the program are obtained via electric company rates, on-
going costs are obtained through participants.  

For further information regarding the program, see the [Oregon Community Solar
Program](https://www.oregoncsp.org/) site.  

 
 