# Delaware - Community Solar Rules 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-23 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-22 18:52:32 
 ***state** : Delaware 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Delaware Public Services Commission 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Delmarva

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : Nameplate capacity of 4 megawatts (MW)

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : No cap

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Retail Rate

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : Requires each system owner to certify that it serves at least 15% low income
customers.

 
 ## Summary : 
 On September 17th, 2021, the Governor of the State of Delaware signed into law
Senate Bill 2, which amended the _Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards Act and
the Electric Utility Restructuring Act of 1999_ to accelarate the adoption of
community-owned solar photovoltaic systems in Delaware and to establish a
process relating to community-owned energy generating facilities (CEFS).

Below are some of the key features of this program.

  1. The community-owned energy generating facility shall not have subscriptions larger than 200 kilowatts constituting more than 60% of its capacity.   

  2. A community-owned energy generating facility shall not exceed a capacity of 4 megawatts.
  3. The community-owned energy generating facility will retain ownership of all RECs and SRECs associated with the electric energy it produces unless it has relinquished such ownership by contractual agreement with a third party or its customers.
  4. Projects must be installed within the Delmarva service area.

Visit the above website or see Delmarva's [Community Solar
Resources](https://www.delmarva.com/SmartEnergy/MyGreenPowerConnection/Pages/DE/CommunitySolarResources.aspx)
page for more information.  

  

 
 