# Louisiana Community Solar - Net Metering and Distributed Generation 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-23 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-05 20:38:24 
 ***state** : Louisiana 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Multifamily Residential 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Investor-owned utilities, Electric cooperatives

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 300 kW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : No limit

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Avoided cost rate

 
 ## Summary : 
 Louisiana's community solar rules were established in September 2019, when the
Louisiana Public Service Commission approved changes to the state’s rules for
distributed generation facilities (per [Docket No.
R-33929](https://cdn.entergy-
louisiana.com/userfiles/content/net_metering/LPSC_General_Order.pdf)). Under
the new policy facilities installed there are two rate schedules for
distributed generation facilities:  

**Rider Schedule NM**

Owners of qualifying distributed generation facilities installed before
December 31st, 2019 would use their current net metering billing and be
grandfathered in for 15 years until December 31st, 2034. During each billing
month, these customers will pay the applicable retail rate for the difference
between the electricity (in kWh) purchased from the utility and the
electricity (in kWh) supplied to the grid. If a customer provides more
electricity than is purchased in a given month, the customer receives the
minimum bill and the excess kWhs are applied to the following month's bill.
See [Rider Schedule NM](https://cdn.entergy-
louisiana.com/userfiles/content/price/tariffs/ell_elec_nm.pdf) for more
billing information.  

**Rider Schedule DG**

Owners of qualifying distributed generation facilities installed after Dec.
31, 2019, will be billed under [Rider Schedule DG](https://cdn.entergy-
louisiana.com/userfiles/content/price/tariffs/ell_elec_dg.pdf), which applies
a crediting mechanism known as two-channel billing. During each billing month,
customers will pay the applicable retail rate for all electricity (in kWh)
purchased from the utility and will receive the full retail value for all
electricity that they produce and use behind the meter at their home or
business. Any surplus energy not used by the customer and sent back to the
grid will be credited to the customer's bill at the current Avoided Cost rate
of approximately $0.0368. The customer's monthly bill can be reduced to the
fixed Customer Charge or minimum bill, but not less than that amount; any
additional bill credit remaining will be carried over to the following month's
bill.  

**System Capacity Limit**

Under Louisiana's community solar rules, capacity is up to 300 kW.

 
 