# Massachusetts Community Renewable Energy - Neighborhood Net Metering 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-22 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-02 15:45:13 
 ***state** : Massachusetts 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2008-07-02 04:00:00 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : SMART Program: Maximum aggregate capacity of Solar Tariff Generating Units is
not to exceed 5 MW on a single parcel of land.

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : SMART Program: 3,200 MW

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : **SMART Program Incentive:** (base compensation rate + adders - greenfield) *
kWh generated - value of energy  
**Neighborhood Net Metering Credit Rate:** (excess kilowatt-hours by time of
use billing period) * (NE-ISO default service kWh charge + transmission
kilowatt-hour charge + transition kilowatt-hour charge).

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : SMART Program: Low-income community solar adder is $0.06/kWh.

 
 ## Summary : 
 The community renewable energy program in Massachusetts was first brought to
legislation on July 2nd, 2008 through Chapter 169 of the Act of 2008 within
Massachusetts' session laws. This Act introduced "neighborhood net metering"
to Massachusetts, establishing the framework for community net metering
projects. Neighborhood net metering is any Class I, II or III net metering
facility serving 10 or more residential customers, served by a single
distribution company and located within the customers' neighborhood. Net
metering facility classification definitions may be found within the act
[here](https://malegislature.gov/laws/sessionlaws/acts/2008/chapter169).  

An important addition to neighborhood net metering comes from the Code of
Massachusetts Regulations (CMR), 225 CMR 20.00. This code establishes the
[Solar Massachusetts Renewable
Target](https://www.mass.gov/doc/225-cmr-2000-final-071020-clean/download)
(SMART) program, administered by the Department of Energy Resources and
designed with the intention to expand statewide solar energy by 3200 MW.
Updated July 10th of 2020, this program replaced Massachusetts' Solar Carve-
Out I and II projects.  

As part of the SMART program, Community Shared Solar Tariff Generation Units
(CSTGUs) may receive incentive payments to assist in neighborhood net metering
projects. CSTGUs are electricity generating units which use solar
photovoltaics and provide electricity or bill credits to three or more
customers. No more than 2 participants may receive bill credits in excess of
those produced annually by 25 kW of nameplate AC capacity, nor will their
ownership exceed 50% of the total capacity of the generation unit, except in
the case the generation unit is smaller than 100 kW AC. SMART incentive
payments are equal to the base compensation rate, plus program adders, minus a
greenfield subtractor, multiplied by the total kWh generated, minus the value
of energy generated. Base compensation rates are submitted for approval to
electric utilities, and are not to exceed system ceiling rates. For systems
between 1 and 5 MW, the ceiling rate is $0.17/kWh. For systems under 1 MW
rated capacity, a rate factor is applied to the base compensation rate. The
rate factors are as follows:  

  1. 0 - 25 kW AC systems (low-income): 230%  

  2. 0 - 25 kW AC systems: 200%   

  3. 25 - 250 kW AC systems: 150%
  4. 250 - 500 kW AC systems: 125%
  5. 500 - 1,000 kW AC systems: 110%  

SMART program adders range from $0.02 - $0.06/kWh, with community solar adders
being $0.05/kWh for regular systems and $0.06/kWh for low-income community
solar projects. Greenfield subtractors relate to land use categorizations and
can reduce incentive payments between $0.0005 - $0.001/kWh per acre.  

 
 