# Washington Community Solar Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-06-23 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-02-28 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Washington 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Tribal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2022-07-01 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Washington State University Energy Program 
 ***funding Source*** : The Washington State University Extension Energy Program 
 ***budget*** : $100,000,000 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Washington Electric Utilities

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 199 kW

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : Yes, see HB 1814 - 2021-22

 
 ## Summary : 
 Beginning July 1st, 2017, under Revised Code of Washington Title 82, Chapter
82.16.170 ([RCW
82.16.170](https://app.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=82.16.170)), the state
of Washington granted community solar administrators the ability to organize
and administer community solar projects. Stipulations surrounding community
solar projects include a maximum direct current (DC) nameplate capacity of 1
megawatt (MW), as well as a minimum of 10 participants or 1 participant per 10
kW DC nameplate capacity, whichever is greater. Projects exceeding 500 kW will
be subject to a standard interconnection agreement. Members participating in
any community solar project must be customers of the utility providing service
at the site. Additional organizational and administrative information can be
found within the above mentioned RCW chapter.  

To incentivize the creation of community solar projects, [RCW
82.16.165](https://app.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=82.16.165) details
avenues community solar administrators can pursue to obtain incentives through
the Washington State University Extension Energy Program (WSUEEP). This
program closed to new project certifications in July 2021.

In March 2022, the Washington legislature passed [HB 1814 -
2021-22](https://lawfilesext.leg.wa.gov/biennium/2021-22/Pdf/Bills/Session%20Laws/House/1814-S2.SL.pdf?q=20230228100756),
establishing a new community solar incentive program that provides direct
benefits to low-income subscribers, low-income service provider subscribers,
and tribal and public agency subscribers. Eligible systems have a DC nameplate
capacity between 12 kW and 199 kW and at least two low-income subscribers or
one low-income service provider. The budget for this incentive is $100 million
to be spent over the next 10 years, of which $2 million must be used to
support nonprofit organizations’ innovative approaches to allocating benefits
to subscribers, $2 million must also be available to tribal governments. This
incentive program will offer project precertification through June 30, 2033.

 
 