# H. R. 5376—145  

(4) TRANSFER OF CREDIT.—The amendments made by subsection (g) shall apply to vehicles placed in service after December 31, 2023. (5) ELIMINATION OF MANUFACTURER LIMITATION.—The amendment made by subsection (d) shall apply to vehicles sold after December 31, 2022. (l) TRANSITION RULE.—Solely for purposes of the application of section 30D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, in the case of a taxpayer that— (1) after December 31, 2021, and before the date of enactment of this Act, purchased, or entered into a written binding contract to purchase, a new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle (as defined in section 30D(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act), and (2) placed such vehicle in service on or after the date of enactment of this Act, such taxpayer may elect (at such time, and in such form and manner, as the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary’s delegate, may prescribe) to treat such vehicle as having been placed in service on the day before the date of enactment of this Act. SEC. 13402. CREDIT FOR PREVIOUSLY-OWNED CLEAN VEHICLES.  

#  

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after section 25D the following new section:  

# EC. 25E. PREVIOUSLY-OWNED CLEAN VEHICLES.  

‘‘(a) ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT.—In the case of a qualified buyer   
who during a taxable year places in service a previously-owned   
clean vehicle, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax   
imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal   
to the lesser of— ‘‘(1) $\$4,000$ , or ‘‘(2) the amount equal to 30 percent of the sale price with respect to such vehicle. $^{66}(6)$ LIMITATION BASED ON MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS   
INCOME.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year if— ‘‘(A) the lesser of— ‘‘(i) the modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer for such taxable year, or ‘‘(ii) the modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer for the preceding taxable year, exceeds ${}^{\hat{\mathbf{\pi}}}(\tilde{\mathbf{B}})$ the threshold amount. ‘‘(2) THRESHOLD AMOUNT.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the threshold amount shall be— ‘‘(A) in the case of a joint return or a surviving spouse (as defined in section $2(\mathbf{a})\overset{\cdot}{,}$ , $\$150,000$ , ‘‘(B) in the case of a head of household (as defined in section $2(\mathbf{b})$ ), $\$112300$ , and $^{66}(\mathrm{C})$ in the case of a taxpayer not described in subparagraph (A) or (B), $\$75,000$ . $^{\leftarrow}(3)$ MODIFIED ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘modified adjusted gross income’ means adjusted gross income increased by any amount excluded from gross income under section 911, 931, or 933. ‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section— ‘‘(1) PREVIOUSLY-OWNED CLEAN VEHICLE.—The term ‘previously-owned clean vehicle’ means, with respect to a taxpayer, a motor vehicle— ‘‘(A) the model year of which is at least 2 years earlier than the calendar year in which the taxpayer acquires such vehicle, ‘‘(B) the original use of which commences with a person other than the taxpayer, ‘‘(C) which is acquired by the taxpayer in a qualified sale, and ‘‘(D) which— ‘‘(i) meets the requirements of subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (F), and (H) (except for clause (iv) thereof) of section 30D(d)(1), or ‘‘(ii) is a motor vehicle which— ‘‘(I) satisfies the requirements under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 30B(b)(3), and ‘‘(II) has a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds. ‘‘(2) QUALIFIED SALE.—The term ‘qualified sale’ means a sale of a motor vehicle— ‘‘(A) by a dealer (as defined in section $\mathrm{30D(g)}(8))$ , ‘‘(B) for a sale price which does not exceed $\$25,000$ , and ‘‘(C) which is the first transfer since the date of the enactment of this section to a qualified buyer other than the person with whom the original use of such vehicle commenced. ‘‘(3) QUALIFIED BUYER.—The term ‘qualified buyer’ means, with respect to a sale of a motor vehicle, a taxpayer— ‘‘(A) who is an individual, $^{66}(\mathrm{B})$ who purchases such vehicle for use and not for resale, $^{\circ\epsilon}(\dot{\mathbf{C}})$ with respect to whom no deduction is allowable with respect to another taxpayer under section 151, and $^{66}(\mathrm{D})$ who has not been allowed a credit under this section for any sale during the 3-year period ending on the date of the sale of such vehicle. ‘‘(4) MOTOR VEHICLE; CAPACITY.—The terms ‘motor vehicle’ and ‘capacity’ have the meaning given such terms in paragraphs (2) and (4) of section 30D(d), respectively. ‘‘(d) VIN NUMBER REQUIREMENT.—No credit shall be allowed   
under subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer udes the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the   
return of tax for the taxable year. ‘‘(e) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN RULES.—For purposes of this tion, rules similar to the rules of section 30D(f) (without regard paragraph (10) or (11) thereof) shall apply for purposes of this   
section. ‘‘(f) TERMINATION.—No credit shall be allowed under this section   
with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2032.’’. (b) TRANSFER OF CREDIT.—Section 25E, as added by subsection   
(a), is amended— (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection $(\mathbf{g})$ , and (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:  

‘‘(f) TRANSFER OF CREDIT.—Rules similar to the rules of section ${\bf30D(g)}$ shall apply.’’. (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section $6213(\mathrm{g})(2)$ , as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended—  

(1) in subparagraph (S), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end, (2) in subparagraph (T), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and (3) by inserting after subparagraph (T) the following: ‘‘(U) an omission of a correct vehicle identification number required under section 25E(d) (relating to credit for previously-owned clean vehicles) to be included on a return.’’. (d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections for subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting fter the item relating to section 25D the following new item: ‘‘Sec. 25E. Previously-owned clean vehicles.’’.  

(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—  

(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2022. (2) TRANSFER OF CREDIT.—The amendments made by subsection (b) shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2023.  

# SEC. 13403. QUALIFIED COMMERCIAL CLEAN VEHICLES.  

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:  

# ‘SEC. 45W. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED COMMERCIAL CLEAN VEHICLES.  

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 38, the qualified commercial clean vehicle credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to the sum of the credit amounts determined under subsection (b) with respect to each qualified commercial clean vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year.  

‘‘(b) PER VEHICLE AMOUNT.—  

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (4), the amount   
determined under this subsection with respect to any qualified   
commercial clean vehicle shall be equal to the lesser of— ‘‘(A) 15 percent of the basis of such vehicle (30 percent in the case of a vehicle not powered by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion engine), or ‘‘(B) the incremental cost of such vehicle. ‘‘(2) INCREMENTAL COST.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(B),   
the incremental cost of any qualified commercial clean vehicle   
is an amount equal to the excess of the purchase price for   
such vehicle over such price of a comparable vehicle. ‘‘(3) COMPARABLE VEHICLE.—For purposes of this sub  
section, the term ‘comparable vehicle’ means, with respect to   
any qualified commercial clean vehicle, any vehicle which is   
powered solely by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion   
engine and which is comparable in size and use to such vehicle. ‘‘(4) LIMITATION.—The amount determined under this sub  
section with respect to any qualified commercial clean vehicle   
shall not exceed— ‘‘(A) in the case of a vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds, $\$7,500$ , and  

‘‘(B) in the case of a vehicle not described in subparagraph (A), $\$40,000$ .  

‘‘(c) QUALIFIED COMMERCIAL CLEAN VEHICLE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified commercial clean vehicle’ means any vehicle which—  

‘‘(1) meets the requirements of section 30D(d)(1)(C) and is acquired for use or lease by the taxpayer and not for resale, ‘‘(2) either—  

‘‘(A) meets the requirements of subparagraph (D) of section 30D(d)(1) and is manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, and highways (not including a vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails), or  

‘‘(B) is mobile machinery, as defined in section 4053(8) (including vehicles that are not designed to perform a function of transporting a load over the public highways), $^{\leftarrow}(3)$ either—  

‘‘(A) is propelled to a significant extent by an electric motor which draws electricity from a battery which has a capacity of not less than 15 kilowatt hours (or, in the case of a vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds, 7 kilowatt hours) and is capable of being recharged from an external source of electricity, or  

‘‘(B) is a motor vehicle which satisfies the requirements under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 30B(b)(3), and ‘‘(4) is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation. ‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULES.—  

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Rules similar to the rules under subsection (f) of section 30D (without regard to paragraph (10) or (11) thereof) shall apply for purposes of this section.  

‘‘(2) VEHICLES PLACED IN SERVICE BY TAX-EXEMPT ENTITIES.—Subsection (c)(4) shall not apply to any vehicle which is not subject to a lease and which is placed in service by a tax-exempt entity described in clause (i), (ii), or (iv) of section 168(h)(2)(A).  

‘‘(3) NO DOUBLE BENEFIT.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any vehicle for which a credit was allowed under section 30D.  

‘‘(e) VIN NUMBER REQUIREMENT.—No credit shall be determined under subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer includes the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the return of tax for the taxable year.  

‘‘(f) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including regulations or other guidance relating to determination of the incremental cost of any qualified commercial clean vehicle.  

$^{\leftleftarrows}(\mathbf{g})$ TERMINATION.—No credit shall be determined under this section with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2032.’’.  

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—  

(1) Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended— (A) in paragraph (35), by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end, (B) in paragraph (36), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and  

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(37) the qualified commercial clean vehicle credit determined under section 45W.’’. (2) Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended— (A) in subparagraph (T), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end, (B) in subparagraph (U), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and (C) by inserting after subparagraph (U) the following: ‘‘(V) an omission of a correct vehicle identification number required under section 45W(e) (relating to commercial clean vehicle credit) to be included on a return.’’. (3) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  

‘‘Sec. 45W. Qualified commercial clean vehicle credit.’’.  

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2022.  

# SEC. 13404. ALTERNATIVE FUEL REFUELING PROPERTY CREDIT.  

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 30C(g) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, $2021^{\mathfrak{N}}$ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2032’’.  

(b) CREDIT FOR PROPERTY OF A CHARACTER SUBJECT TO DEPRE  
CIATION.— (1) IN GENERAL.—Section 30C(a) is amended by inserting ‘‘(6 percent in the case of property of a character subject to depreciation)’’ after $\mathbf{\epsilon}^{\mathrm{{s}}}\mathbf{30}$ percent’’. (2) MODIFICATION OF CREDIT LIMITATION.—Subsection (b) of section 30C is amended— (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)— (i) by striking ‘‘with respect to all’’ and inserting ‘‘with respect to any single item of’’, and (ii) by striking ‘‘at a location’’, and (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ${}^{\leftarrow}\$30,000$ in the case of a property’’ and inserting $\$100,000$ in the case of any such item of property’’. (3) BIDIRECTIONAL CHARGING EQUIPMENT INCLUDED AS QUALIFIED ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLE REFUELING PROPERTY.— Section 30C(c) is amended to read as follows: ‘‘(c) QUALIFIED ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLE REFUELING PROP  
ERTY.—For purposes of this section— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling property’ has the same meaning as the term ‘qualified clean-fuel vehicle refueling property’ would have under section 179A if— ‘‘(A) paragraph (1) of section 179A(d) did not apply to property installed on property which is used as the principal residence (within the meaning of section 121) of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(B) only the following were treated as clean-burning fuels for purposes of section 179A(d): ‘‘(i) Any fuel at least 85 percent of the volume of which consists of one or more of the following: ethanol, natural gas, compressed natural gas, liquified natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, or hydrogen. ‘‘(ii) Any mixture—  