# Qualified Commercial Clean Vehicle Tax Credit 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-08-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-09-15 18:14:34 
 ***state** : Federal 
 **implementing sector***: Federal 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Corporate Tax Credit 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Cooperative Utilities, State Government, Tribal Government 
 ***start date*** : 2023-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2032-12-31 05:00:00 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : 30%

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Vehicles less than 14,000 pounds: $7,500  
Mobil Machinery: $40,000

 
 ## Summary : 
 Section 13403 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ([H.R.
5376](https://www.congress.gov/117/bills/hr5376/BILLS-117hr5376enr.pdf#page=147))
established a tax credit for qualified commercial clean vehicles purchased on
or after January 1, 2023. To qualify, the vehicle must have a gross vehicle
weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds and have a battery rating of not less
than 7 kilowatt hours. Mobile machinery, as defined in section 4053(8)
(including vehicles that are not designed to perform a function of
transporting a load over the public highways) can exceed the 14,000 pound
weight limit, but must have a battery capacity of not less than 15 kilowatt
hours. The tax credit is worth 30% of the cost, up to $7,500 for vehicles less
than 14,000 pounds, or $40,000 for mobile machinery.

Section 13801 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 also established
procedures for other parties to monetize certain tax credits, including this
one, for equipment placed in service on or after January 1, 2023 and through
December 31, 2032.

The _direct pay_ option allows non-taxable entities to directly monetize
certain tax credits. The provisions apply to nonprofits, a state or political
subdivision thereof, the Tennessee Valley Authority, Indian tribal governments
(as defined in Section 30D(g)(9)), any Alaska Native Corporation (as defined
in Section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act), or any corporation
operating on a cooperative basis which is engaged in furnishing electric
energy to persons in rural areas. Such applicable entities can elect to be
treated as having made a tax payment equal to the value of the tax credit they
would otherwise be eligible to claim. The entity can then claim a refund for
the excess taxes they are deemed to have paid. The option effectively makes
this tax credit refundable for these entities.

The act also allows eligible taxpayers to _transfer_ all or a portion of their
eligible tax credits to an unrelated taxpayer. Transfers must be reported to
IRS and only one transfer is permitted. Must be elected no later than the due
date for tax filing for the tax year the tax credit is claimed.

  

 
 