# Community Grants Eligibility Requirements  

Pedernales Electric Cooperative’s (PEC) Community Grants program awards grants up to \$5,000 to eligible nonprofit organizations for qualified projects located within the PEC service area or in a community surrounded by the PEC service area. The grants are made possible by PEC members’ participation in the Power of Change program.  

# Eligibility Requirements  

Must be a nonprofit organization organized under the laws of the state of Texas, currently in good standing with the Texas Secretary of State and Texas Comptroller’s office.   
Must provide current IRS documentation confirming taxexempt status.  

Must not receive a majority of funding (51 percent or greater) from entities with taxing authority. Nonprofit organization must be located within the PEC service area (https://mypec.com/about-us/servicearea/) or in a community surrounded by the PEC service area. Projects must be completed within 12 months of the date the grant money is awarded. If your organization is asking for partial funding of a larger project, you must include a total budget plan that clearly shows how you will complete the project within 12 months. Must not have received PEC Community Grants funding during the previous application cycle (funded organizations must sit out one application cycle before submitting an application for a new project).  

# PEC Community Grants must be used for the following:  

Capital improvements   
Technology   
Equipment related to energy efficiency  

# PEC Community Grants cannot be used to/for:  

Completed projects; debt reduction campaigns; building an endowment; land acquisition projects; scholarship programs; religious or church-sponsored facilities that are limited to church membership or projects that exclusively serve religious purposes; general operating costs; fundraisers; raffles; or ongoing projects, programs, or activities.  

Ineligible organizations include for-profit entities, individuals, and professional associations.  

# Evaluation factors  

Project value Emphasis will be placed on projects related to 1) renewable energy or conservation of natural resources, 2) life saving technology/equipment, or 3) primary service/resource provider in your area.   
Project impact Preference will be given to projects that directly benefit a large number of members of the community as opposed to a project that impacts a smaller group.   
Partnership and community involvement Preference will be given to projects receiving in-kind support or services.   
Matching funds Preference will be given to projects that have at least $20\%$ matching funds.   
Community grant history Preference will be given to organizations that have not previously received PEC’s Community Grants (funded organizations must sit out one application cycle before reapplying).   
Project budget  

Organizations must provide a project budget that clearly shows the ability to complete financing for the project if the grant request does not cover the cost of the entire project. The application must also include bid proposals or estimates.  