# Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Tax Credit (Personal) 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-08-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2022-08-18 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Federal 
 **implementing sector***: Federal 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Personal Tax Credit 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : 30%

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $1,000

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: Section 13404 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ([H.R.
5376](https://www.congress.gov/117/bills/hr5376/BILLS-117hr5376enr.pdf#page=149))
modified and extended the expiration date for the Alternative Fuel Vehicle
Refueling Property Credit. The summary below described the credit as modified
by H.R. 5376. _**

Qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling equipment not subject to
depreciation allowances, including electric vehicle charging equipment, is
eligible for a tax credit of 30% up to $1,000. These projects do not have to
meet the same labor standards as commercial projects in order to qualify for
the full 30% tax credit.

Section 13801 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 also established
procedures for other parties to monetize certain tax credits, including this
one, for equipment placed in service on or after January 1, 2023 and through
December 31, 2032.  

The _direct pay_ option allows non-taxable entities to directly monetize
certain tax credits. The provisions apply to nonprofits, a state or political
subdivision thereof, the Tennessee Valley Authority, Indian tribal governments
(as defined in Section 30D(g)(9)), any Alaska Native Corporation (as defined
in Section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act), or any corporation
operating on a cooperative basis which is engaged in furnishing electric
energy to persons in rural areas. Such applicable entities can elect to be
treated as having made a tax payment equal to the value of the tax credit they
would otherwise be eligible to claim. The entity can then claim a refund for
the excess taxes they are deemed to have paid. The option effectively makes
this tax credit refundable for these entities.  

The act also allows eligible taxpayers to _transfer_ all or a portion of their
eligible tax credits to an unrelated taxpayer. Transfers must be reported to
IRS and only one transfer is permitted. Must be elected no later than the due
date for tax filing for the tax year the tax credit is claimed.  

  

  

 
 