# Oncor Electric Delivery - Commercial Solar Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-11-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-04-08 15:05:53 
 ***state** : Texas 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***administrator*** : Oncor Electric Delivery 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Contact utility

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : 10 kW-DC to 450 kW-DC. Must be less than 75% of annual peak demand

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : The solar system must be new

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Work must be performed in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and
local codes and standards; The solar array azimuth must be within 90 to 270
degrees; The tilt angle must be between 0 (horizontal) and latitude + 15
degrees

 
 ## Summary : 
 Oncor Electric Delivery offers rebates to its customers that install
photovoltaic (PV) systems on businesses in its service area. Oncor commercial
customers are eligible to participate in the program. Rebates may be assigned
to the customer, a service provider, or a third party.  
  
**Eligibility**  
  
A commercial customer's business must have electric delivery service provided
by Oncor. Systems must be new, connected to the grid on the customer side of
the meter and meet all applicable code and utility interconnection
requirements. All installations must be performed by service providers who
meet specific program eligibility requirements.  
  
For more information, visit the program website.  

 
 