# YOU CHOOSE SAVINGS YOUR WAY  

# WHAT IS THE COMMERCIAL SOLAR OPTION?  

Oncor provides incentives to participating service providers who install solar photovoltaic systems for commercial facilities to help offset initial investment costs. Oncor's programs typically run from January through November on an annual basis.  

Depending on the size, your planned unit may qualify for an incentive. Please contact one of our participating Service Providers for program requirements.  

BEFORE YOU GET STARTED, WE WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU QUALIFY.  

# COMMERCIAL SOLAR OPTION QUALIFICATIONS  

Your business facility must be located in Oncor’s participating service area and receive electricity from an Oncor meter. Examples of eligible facilities include restaurants, retail stores, health care facilities,  

The solar photovoltaic system must meet the following requirements:  

System must be new. Sites that have existing solar arrays installed are not eligible for an incentive.   
Solar array azimuth should be between 67.5 degrees and 292.5 degrees   
The customer must sign an Interconnection Agreement with Oncor.   
Minimum system size is 10 kW DC.   
The largest system size accepted is 450 kW DC. If your system is larger than the maximum 450 kW DC, you are still eligible to participate, but your installer can only submit up to the system’s maximum size. To eliminate confusion during inspections, the installer will need to contact the Program Manager about the system being larger than the maximum allowed and that a portion of the system will not qualify.   
Commercial systems must be LESS THAN 75 percent of annual peak demand. Systems that are more than 75 percent are not eligible.  

# SOUND LIKE YOU? THEN LET’S GET DOWN TO BUSINESS AND START SAVING!  

Select your projects of interest and enter your zip code to be matched with participating service providers in your area. From there, you have the freedom to choose the provider and projects to your preference. Need tips to select your service provider? CLICK HERE  

# Notice for Oncor Customers:  

When Oncor Energy Efficiency programs are open, you may find an approved list of Service Providers that participate using the Find A Provider look-up available from this website are not associated with or endorsed by the Public Utility Commission of Texas. Most energy efficiency programs are available from January – November on an annual basis.  