# Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property Tax Credit (Corporate) 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-08-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-09-15 18:13:47 
 ***state** : Federal 
 **implementing sector***: Federal 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Corporate Tax Credit 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Cooperative Utilities, State Government, Tribal Government 
 ***start date*** : 2006-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2032-12-31 05:00:00 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : 6% for projects that do not meet specified labor standards  
30% for projects that do meet specified labor standards

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $100,000 for each single item of property

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : The project must be located in a census tract described in section 45D(e) of
the IRS Code, or not in an urban area.

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: Section 13404 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ([H.R.
5376](https://www.congress.gov/117/bills/hr5376/BILLS-117hr5376enr.pdf))
modified and extended the expiration date for the Alternative Fuel Vehicle
Refueling Property Credit. Among other changes, it reduced the base tax credit
from 30% to 6%, but allows the full 30% for projects that meet certain labor
standards. The summary below described the credit as modified by H.R. 5376.
_**

Qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling equipment, including electric
vehicle charging equipment, is eligible for a tax credit of 6% up to $100,000
for each single item of property. Projects that meet the following wage and
apprenticeship requirements are entitled to a larger tax credit of 30%. The
taxpayer must ensure that all laborers and mechanics employed by the taxpayer
or any contractor or subcontractor engaged in building the project be paid
prevailing wages. The project must also employ a certain percentage of
apprentices. The project must also be located in a census tract described in
section 45D(e) of the IRS Code, or not in an urban area. The Department of the
Treasury issued [Initial
Guidance](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2022-11-30/pdf/2022-26108.pdf)
on these requirements on November 30, 2022. According to law, the labor
provisions apply to projects for which construction begins 60 days or more
after Treasury publishes its guidance. Given the publishing date of November
30, 2022, the effective date for the labor provisions is January 30, 2023.

  

Section 13801 of The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 also established
procedures for other parties to monetize certain tax credits, including this
one, for equipment placed in service on or after January 1, 2023 and through
December 31, 2032.  

The _direct pay_ option allows non-taxable entities to directly monetize
certain tax credits. The provisions apply to nonprofits, a state or political
subdivision thereof, the Tennessee Valley Authority, Indian tribal governments
(as defined in Section 30D(g)(9)), any Alaska Native Corporation (as defined
in Section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act), or any corporation
operating on a cooperative basis which is engaged in furnishing electric
energy to persons in rural areas. Such applicable entities can elect to be
treated as having made a tax payment equal to the value of the tax credit they
would otherwise be eligible to claim. The entity can then claim a refund for
the excess taxes they are deemed to have paid. The option effectively makes
this tax credit refundable for these entities.  

The act also allows eligible taxpayers to _transfer_ all or a portion of their
eligible tax credits to an unrelated taxpayer. Transfers must be reported to
IRS and only one transfer is permitted. Must be elected no later than the due
date for tax filing for the tax year the tax credit is claimed.  

  

  

  

 
 