# Successor Solar Incentive (SuSI) Program - Competitive Solar Incentive 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-12-13 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2022-12-13 17:11:20 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Performance-Based Incentive 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Agricultural, Institutional 
 ***start date*** : 2023-04-15 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Board of Public Utilities 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Determined by applicant bids on a per-project basis.

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Capacity Tranches:  
Tranche 1 - Basic Grid Supply: 140 MW target  
Tranche 2 - Grid Supply on Built Environment: 80 MW target  
Tranche 3 - Grid Supply on contaminated sites/landfills: 40 MW target  
Tranche 4 - Net-metered non-residential: 40 MW target  
Tranche 5 - storage paired with grid supply: 160 MW target (40 MW of solar
paired with 4-hour duration storage)

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : 5 MW or greater

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : All equipment must be new

 
 ## Summary : 
 By Board Order
[12-7-22-8C](https://publicaccess.bpu.state.nj.us/DocumentHandler.ashx?document_id=1283953)
on December 7, 2022, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities established the
Competitive Solar Incentive (CSI) Program as part of the Successor Solar
Incentive (SuSI) Program. The SuSI Program was established to replace the SREC
Registration Program in July 2021.  

The SuSI program consists of two sub-programs:

[**Administratively Determined Incentive
Program**](https://njcleanenergy.com/renewable-energy/programs/susi-
program/adi-program)  

The ADI Program provides fixed incentives for residential and non-residential
net metered projects up to 5 MW. See the [Administratively Determined
Incentive Program](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/edit/22418)
DSIRE entry for more information on that program.  

[**Competitive Solar Incentive Program**](https://njcleanenergy.com/renewable-
energy/programs/susi-program/csi-program)

The CSI Program Provides incentives for grid supply and non-residential net
metered solar projects with nameplate capacity greater than 5 MW.  

The CSI Program will take applications beginning April 15, 2023.  

**CSI Capacity Targets**  

The Program targets 300 MW of total procurement annually, separated into
Tranches. Grid Supply projects must exceed 5 MW-DC capacity.  

Tranche 1 (140 MW) is Basic Grid Supply with no limitations on project
locations.

Tranche 2 (80 MW) is reserved for Grid Supply on existing buildings.  

Tranche 3 (40 MW) is reserved for Grid Supply projects on contaminated sites
or landfills.

Tranche 4 (40 MW) is reserved for non-residential net metered projects with
capacity exceeding 5 MW.  

Tranche 5 (160 MW) is a storage target representing 4-hour duration energy
storage co-located with 40 MW of solar from the Tranches above.  

**CSI Incentive Determination**  

The CSI Program uses a pay-as-bid valuation mechanism for the SREC-IIs issued
by the program. Projects will include a bid for the SREC-IIs awarded to their
project and will be paid that fixed amount per SREC-II.  

A SREC-II Adder is available for projects which include energy storage. The
SREC-II Adder is calculated as follows:

Normalized Storage Bid * [ Storage Discharge Capacity / (Facility Capacity * 4
hours) ]  

SREC-IIs will be provided for 15 years of project operations.  

 
 