# Dominion Energy Virginia - EV Charger Rewards 
 ***created_at*** : 2022-12-16 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-06-12 16:52:01 
 ***state** : Virginia 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : $40 per year for continued participation in EV Charging Rewards Program.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Level-2 Electric Vehicle Service Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 40.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **EV Charger Rewards Program - Rebate Instructions**  

Steps for participation:  

1) Purchase a new, qualifying smart level 2 ChargePoint or JuiceBox charger
from the Dominion Energy Marketplace, or any other retailer.

2) Install the charger and register it with the manufacturer. Register for EV
Charger Rewards on the manufacturer website.  

3) Participants enrolled in the Charging Rewards program will receive a $40
rebate after one year of participation, and an additional $40 every year
thereafter on their anniversary date.  

See here for [Eligible Electric Vehicle
Chargers](https://dominion.myrebateportal.com/Rebate/EligibleEquipment/Electric%20Charger)  

**EV Charger Rewards Program - Description**

This program is open to current Dominion Energy Virginia customers, **not**
billed on a time-of-use rate, with qualified, wi-fi capable level 2 EV
chargers connected to the internet. The Customer will allow Dominion to
control their EV charging during peak hours.  

Load control events under this program have a maximum of 4 hours in duration,
up to 15 times per month, and a total of up to 45 occurrences per year.  

 
 