# City of New Orleans - Community Solar Rules 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-02-15 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-05 20:37:39 
 ***state** : Louisiana 
 **implementing sector***: Local 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Community Solar Rules 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : City of New Orleans 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : All utilities

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 5 MW

 
 ***Program Capacity Limit*** : Less than or equal to 5% of a utility's annual peak annual peak in MW (for
first 3 yrs. of program)

 
 ***Participant Credit Rate*** : Calculated by multiplying monthly kWh output and the full retail rate

 
 ***Low-Moderate Income Provisions*** : 30-50% carve-out for facilities up to 5 MW

 
 ## Summary : 
 The City of New Orleans established Community Solar Rules through the City
Council's [Resolution R-19-11](https://cdn.entergy-
neworleans.com/userfiles/community-solar/R-19-111-Appendix-B-Community-Solar-
Rules.pdf), which established policies and procedures for community solar
generating facilities in the Orleans Parish. Entergy New Orleans is required
to administer the council's rules, as well as investigate, and impose any
penalties for violations of the rules. The rules were amended through
Resolution
[R-22-76](https://council.nola.gov/council/media/Assets/Committees/Utility/R-22-76-Amending-
Community-Solar-Rules.pdf) to change the income threshold of a Low-income
subscriber to 60% of Area Median Income, and again through Resolution
[R-23-130](https://council.nola.gov/council/media/Assets/Committees/Climate/R-23-130-MEI-
Amend-of-Community-Solar-Rules-UD-18-03.pdf) to increase the generating
capacity of a community solar facility from 2 MW to 5 MW. Most recently the
rules were changed by
[R-23-507](https://www.all4energy.org/uploads/1/0/5/6/105637723/r-23-507_2023_mei_amendment_to_community_solar_rules.pdf),
raising the PPA term limit to 20 years; allowing customers to transfer REC
ownership to the subscriber organization; and changing the per kWh credit rate
to a full retail rate (low-income subscribers have a full retail rate plus 2
cents/kWh).

**System Capacity Limits**

The generating capacity of a community solar facility must not exceed 5 MW. A
facility with a capacity of 1 MW or greater may not be located on the
same/adjacent property as an existing or proposed 1 MW or greater facility
owned by the same subscriber organization. One or more organizations are
allowed to construct multiple facilities on a single parcel of property, as
long as the aggregate capacity does not exceed 5 MW.

**Program Capacity Limits**

The community solar program's capacity limit is less than or equal to 5% of a
utility's annual peak in MW for the first three years of the program. After
three years, the council will reconsider the limit.

**Low-Income Provisions**

Low-income subscribers are reserved a minimum carve-out of 30% for a facility
with a max capacity of 5 MW. The carve-out limit is 50%.

**Credit Rate**

Credits are applied to each subscriber's monthly bill at the full retail rate.
If a credit exceeds the subscriber's monthly bill, the excess credit will roll
over monthly and indefinitely until the service is terminated. The same goes
for any low-income subscribers, who receive the full retail rate plus 2
cents/kWh adder. As for renewable energy credits (RECs), the individual
subscriber maintains ownership and is allowed to transfer ownership to the
subscriber organization.

 
 