# Solar PV  

# Solar PV Interconnection & Incentives  

ELD customers interested in pursuing solar interconnection should review the ELD's Solar Interconnection Process & Application document.  

Please be aware, those pursuing the ELD's current incentive of $\$0.30$ /watt, up to $\$3,000$ , should consider the ELD’s requirements for Interconnection, which are detailed in our Distributed Generation Net Metering Policy, and the requirements for the incentive program. The following bullets highlight some of the most notable requirements for each of those programs. Customers and their installers should still review the above documentation as this list is not all-inclusive. One rebate allowed per electric account.  

# ELD’s Requirements for Solar PV Interconnection  

System Size limited to 10kW (DC) for residential customers and 30 kW (DC) for commercial customers.   
Expected production cannot exceed $90\%$ of average load determined by most recent 12 months of billing history. Where the most recent 12 months of billing history does not reflect average load because building was unoccupied or because load is expected to increase (i.e. due to purchase of EV or installation of heat pump), a proforma load estimate completed by a certified electrician may be submitted.   
Additional requirements detailed in the ELD’s Distributed Generation Net Metering Policy and the attached guidance document  

# Requirements for the current Solar Incentive  

Have a capacity of 25 kW DC or less.   
$^{\circ}$ Have no more than $20\%$ reduction in output due to shading.   
$\circ$ Have an azimuth between 90 (east) and 270 (west) degrees.   
Incentive is contingent upon the retirement of the Massachusetts Class 1 RECs.  

Please direct completed application packages as well as solar interconnection inquiries to helps-pv@ipswichutilities.org.  

# Solar FAQ's  

# How do I select a contractor?  

Tips for choosing the right solar contractor:  

Request at least three detailed estimates from licensed contractors.   
Only MA-Licensed Master Electrician can install your system. Installers must be licensed to operate in the state of Massachusetts.  Verify that installers are properly licensed by checking the Massachusetts Home Improvement Contractor Registry and eLicensing Portal.   
Make sure your contractor is bonded and insured.   
Read all documentation carefully before you sign. It’s your responsibility to understand the contract between you an your installer. Any project changes should be documented in writing.   
The links below includes directories and contact information for installers that work in the Commonwealth. Visit the Mass Clean Energy Center website for a list of local installers  

# What questions should I ask a potential installer?  

Read the MassCEC Residential Guide to Solar Electricity to prepare yourself ahead of meeting with potential installers.   
Make sure to read and understand the terms of your contract before signing.  

# How much electricity will my system generate?  

Output depends on many factors. A conservative output estimate is 1,100 kilowatt hours of electricity annually for every one kilowatt of system size. The average residential system in Massachusetts is 8 kilowatts and produces about 8,800 kilowatts of electricity each year. Your MLP might have size restrictions on system size in relation to your past electricity usage.  

# Should I get an energy audit and adopt energy efficiency measures before installing solar?  

Yes. It’s not required but always a great idea. Assessing your home’s energy efficiency and adopting suggested measures is the easiest way to lower electric consumption. Ipswich Electric Light Department offers no-cost Home Energy Assessments. Call 866-306-0909 to get started.  

# What maintenance does a solar electric system need?  

Solar electric systems can require maintenance over their 20-year lifetime.  Installers should provide a minimum five-year labor warranty to protect your equipment against defective workmanship, component breakdown, or significant degradation in electrical output. In addition, the solar electric equipment should have appropriate manufacturers’ warranties. Although it is uncommon for a solar PV panel or inverter to stop functioning while under warranty, talk to your installer about their policies for equipment replacement, including whether or not labor costs are included.  

# What are my financing options?  

The facility owner must directly purchase or take out a loan for the project in order to qualify for the rebate. Solar leasing and Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) projects do not qualify for this program.  

EnergySage Solar Calculator can help you understand what other homeowners in Massachusetts have paid for similar systems in your area.  