# YOUR COMMUNITY PROVIDED ELECTRIC & CABLE SERVICES  

# Shrewsbury Electric & Cable Operations Terms and Conditions for Simplified Process Interconnections  

1. Construction of the Facility.  The Interconnecting Customer may proceed to construct the Facility once the Approval to install the Facility has been signed by SELCO.  

2. Interconnection and Operation.  The Interconnecting Customer may operate Facility and interconnect with SELCO's system once the following has occurred:  

2.1. Municipal Inspection.  Upon completing construction, the Interconnecting Customer will cause the Facility to be inspected or otherwise certified by the local electrical wiring and building inspectors with jurisdiction.  

2.2. Certificate of Completion.  SELCO will issue the Certificate of Completion to the applicant upon installation of the net and production meters.  

# 2.3. Company has completed or waived the right to inspection.  

3. Company Right of Inspection.  Within ten (10) business days after receipt of the Certificate of Completion, SELCO may, upon reasonable notice and at a mutually convenient time, conduct an inspection of the Facility to ensure that all equipment has been appropriately installed and that all electrical connections have been made in accordance with the Interconnection Policy. SELCO has the right to disconnect the Facility in the event of improper installation or failure to return Certificate of Completion. If SELCO does not inspect in 10 days or by mutual agreement of the Parties, the Witness Test is deemed waived.  

4. Safe Operations and Maintenance.  The Interconnecting Customer shall he fully responsible to operate, maintain, and repair the Facility.  

5. Access.  SELCO shall have access to the disconnect switch of the Facility at all times.  

6. Disconnection.  SELCO may temporarily disconnect the Facility to facilitate planned or emergency SELCO work.  

7. Metering and Billing.  All Facilities approved under this Agreement qualify for net metering, as approved by the Department from time to time, and the following is necessary to implement the net metering provisions:  

7.1. Interconnecting Customer Provides Meter Socket.  The Interconnecting Customer shall furnish and install, if not already in place, the necessary meter socket and wiring in accordance with accepted electrical standards.  

7.2. SELCO Installs Meter.  SELCO shall furnish and install a meter capable of net metering within ten (10) business days after receipt of the Certificate of Completion (Form B) if inspection is waived, or within 10 business days after the inspection is completed, if such meter is not already in place.  

8. Indemnification.  Interconnecting Customer shall indemnify, defend and hold SELCO, its directors, officers, employees and agents (including, but not limited to, Affiliates and contractors and their employees), harmless from and against all liabilities, damages, losses, penalties, claims, demands, suits and proceedings of any nature whatsoever for personal injury (including death) or property damages to unaffiliated third parties that arise out of, or are in any manner connected with, the performance of this Agreement by that party, except to the extent that such injury or damages to unaffiliated third parties may be attributable to the negligence or willful misconduct of the party seeking indemnification.  

9. Limitation of Liability.  SELCO's liability to the other party for any loss, cost, claim, injury, liability, or expense, including reasonable attorney's fees, relating to or arising from any act or omission in its performance of this Agreement, shall be limited to the amount of direct damage actually incurred. In no event shall SELCO be liable to the other party for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or punitive damages of any kind whatsoever.  

10. Termination.  This Agreement may be terminated under the following conditions:  

10.1. By Mutual Agreement. The Parties agree in writing to terminate the agreement.  

10.2. By Interconnecting Customer.  The Interconnecting Customer may terminate this Agreement by providing written notice to  

10.3. By SELCO.  SELCO may terminate this Agreement (1) if the Facility fails to operate for any consecutive 12 month period, or (2) in the event that the Facility impairs the operation of the electric distribution system or service to other customers or materially impairs the local circuit and the Interconnecting Customer does not cure the impairment.  

11. Assignment/Transfer of Ownership of the Facility.  This Agreement shall survive the transfer of ownership of the Facility to a new owner when the new owner agrees in writing to comply with the terms of this Agreement and so notifies SELCO.  

12. Interconnection Tariff.  These Terms and Conditions are pursuant to SELCO's Policy for the Interconnection of Customer-owned Generating Facilities, and as the Policy may be amended from time to time.  

# Interconnecting Customer Signature  

Sign Name Date  

Interconnect ID/Work Request # {{recordId}} SELCO Customer # {{FF35664}} Facility Address: {{streetNo}} {{streetName}} {{unit}} {{city}}, {{state}} {{zipCode}}  

Please Note:  

1. An inter system bonding terminal shall be provided if not presently installed.  

2. 230.85 Emergency Disconnects. For one- and two-family dwelling units, all service conductors shall terminate in disconnecting means having a short-circuit current rating equal to or greater than the available fault current, installed in a readily accessible outdoor location. If more than one disconnect is provided, they shall be grouped. Each disconnect shall be one of the following:  

(1) Service disconnects marked as follows:EMERGENCY DISCONNECT, SERVICE DISCONNEC (2) Meter disconnects installed per 230.82(3) and marked as follows:EMERGENCY DISCONNECT, METER DISCONNECT, NOT SERVICE EQUIPMENT  

(3) Other listed disconnect switches or circuit breakers on the supply side of each service disconnect that are suitable for use as service equipment and marked as follows: EMERGENCY DISCONNECT, NOT SERVICE EQUIPMENT  

Markings shall comply with 110.21(B).  

SELCO may grant exceptions for previously SELCO approved and interconnected Facilities seeking an addition of production equipment, so that an exterior whole home disconnect is not required.  

3. For solar installations, SELCO requires replacing Federal Pacific electrical panels and breakers in the home or business that will connect to the solar system regardless of whether the panel is to be back-fed or a line side tap is used.   
4. Load side taps are not acceptable within the utility meter socket.   
5. SELCO requires that the Solar Production meter be wired with the line side (top) from the output of the solar system and the load side (bottom) be wired to the building load (e.g. breaker in the service panel or service panel line side tap.)   
6. Submit photos of the grounding/bonding of the solar arrays to the structure via upload to the associated electrical permit.  

Effective 03/04/2016: All interconnect agreements submitted for net metering will be subject to future revisions of SELCO's net metering tariff. This includes revisions to the tariff that may credit the wholesale rate for electricity generated onto our system. Effective 05/01/2016: All net metered interconnections to the SELCO grid will be subject to a monthly Distribution Standby Charge of $\$2.50$ per kW of installed solar capacity.  