# Commercial & Industrial Bulk Fuel-Fed Wood Pellet Central Heating Systems Rebate Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-02-28 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-02-26 00:00:00 
 ***state** : New Hampshire 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Multifamily Residential 
 ***administrator*** : New Hampshire Department of Energy 
 ***funding Source*** : New Hampshire Renewable Energy Fund 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : 40% of installation cost, 30% for thermal storage tanks and related components

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $65,000; plus a rebate of up to $5,000 for thermal storage tanks and related
components; a rebate of $5,000 to assist in the cost of meters for REC-
eligible systems.

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : System must be new, with minimum efficiency rating of 80%. System must be
bulk-fuel fed and meet specified air-quality standards.

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : New systems: must become operational on or after December 18, 2013  
Existing systems: must be operational on or after July 9, 2016

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Biomass, Boilers, Furnaces 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Multifamily Residential, Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Multifamily Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 40.0 % of cost 
 
 ## Summary : 
 The New Hampshire Department of Energy offers rebates -- funded by the New
Hampshire Renewable Energy Fund -- of 40% of the installed cost of qualifying
new commercial and industrial bulk-fed, wood-pellet central heating boilers or
furnaces. The maximum rebate amount available is $65,000. Additional rebates
are available for thermal storage tanks and related components (30%, up to
$5,000), and a rebate of $5,000 to assist in the cost of meters for systems
that are eligible for Renewable Energy Credits. To qualify, systems must (1)
become operational on or after December 18, 2013; (2) be at least 80%
efficient; (3) participate in the [EPA Portfolio Manager
program](https://www.epa.gov/climateleadership/overview-webinar-epas-energy-
star-portfolio-managerr-tool-measure-and-track), or equivalent program; (4) be
a minimum of three tons of wood pellet storage, capable of bulk delivery; and
(5) be installed by a qualified installer or a licensed plumber with wood-
pellet central boiler system training. Additional system requirements are
specified in the program application. Modifications to existing systems are
not eligible to receive funding under this program. For existing boilers and
furnaces, the system operational date must be on or after July 9, 2016.

To receive a rebate, applicants must submit a pre-approval application to
ensure funding availability. After receiving verification of eligibility and
securing a place in the funding queue, applicants have three months to
complete the installation. Applicants must submit a final rebate request and
required documentation after the system installation is complete. When all
available program funding has been reserved for approved projects, applicants
who meet all program and project requirements will be placed on a waiting
list. Projects placed on the waiting list are not guaranteed funding.

 
 