# Net Metering 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-03-06 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-03-06 17:06:24 
 ***state** : Montana 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Net Metering 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Residential, Schools, State Government, Federal Government, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Applicable Utilities*** : Investor-owned Utilities

 
 ***System Capacity Limit*** : 50 kW

 
 ***Aggregate Capacity Limit*** : No limit specificed

 
 ***Net Excess Generation*** : Credited to customer's next bill at retail rate; granted to utility at end of
12-month period

 
 ***Ownership of Renewable Energy Credits*** : Not addressed

 
 ***Meter Aggregation*** : Not addressed

 
 ## Summary : 
 **Eligibility and Applicability**

Montana's net-metering law, enacted in July 1999, applies to all customers of
investor-owned utilities. Systems up to 50 kilowatts (kW) in capacity that
generate electricity using solar, wind or hydropower are eligible. No limit on
enrollment or statewide installed capacity is specified. Utilities may not
require customer-generators to comply with any additional standards or
requirements beyond those established by the National Electric Code, National
Electrical Safety Code, Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
(IEEE), and Underwriters Laboratories (UL).

**Net Excess Generation**

Net excess generation (NEG) is credited to the customer's next monthly bill.
The customer may choose to start the net metering period at the beginning of
January, April, July or October to match seasonal farming cycles. At the
beginning of the year -- either in January, April, July or October, depending
on the customer's choice -- any remaining unused kilowatt-hour (kWh) credits
accumulated during the previous year are granted to the utility.

**Electric Cooperatives**

Montana's [electric cooperative
utilities](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/72) developed a
draft net-metering agreement in 2001; this agreement has been adopted by most
of the state's cooperatives. According to Montana's DEQ, all electric co-ops
in the state have voluntarily adopted net-metering policies, contact your
electric cooperative to find out if net metering is available.

**Studies and Successor Tariff**

The Legislature passed a joint resolution in April 2015 to conduct a study on
the costs and benefits of net metering, noting it is necessary to determine
such impacts before moving forward with changes to the state net metering
program. The Energy and Telecommunications Interim Committee reviewed net
metering issues, prepared a draft report to the legislature, and has drafted
several proposed bills to implement changes to the state's net metering policy
to be reviewed by the full legislature in the next session. Committee
materials may be found here.

In May 2017, H.B. 219 was signed into law, directing the state's public
utilities to study the costs and benefits of customer-generators. After
submission of these studies, the Public Service Commission may make a
determination as part of a utility's general rate case that customer-
generators should be served under a separate class of service with separate
rates. Should the Commission make such a determination, existing net metering
customers will be grandfathered under current rates for a certain length of
time.

 
 