# Building Performance  

Work with an Efficiency Excellence Network contractor to improve insulation and air sealing -- ensure occupants' comfort, health, and safety, and get $75\%$ off project costs.  

# ABOUT THIS REBATE  

# Eligibility  

Offer available to:  

✓ Businesses ✓ Rental Properties  

Effective Date: January 1, 2023  

Offer subject to change.  

Offer is for existing commercial, mixed use, or multifamily buildings (see below for more information)   
A participating Efficiency Excellence Network contractor must oversee the work   
Eligible projects achieve a minimum air leakage reduction of $10\%$ (as measured by a pre-and post-blower door test), and installation of all recommended health and safety improvements   
Receive $75\%$ of project costs back, up to \$5,000  

Eligible rental / multifamily building types are:  

Five apartments or more.   
Mixed use (combination of commercial use and any number of apartments).   
Three stories or less.  

Eligible rental / multifamily building use include:  

Residential multifamily apartments.   
Bed and breakfasts.   
Condominiums.   
Common spaces associated with multifamily buildings, including community rooms, central hallways and stairs, laundry rooms, mail rooms, etc.   
Mixed use (combination of eligible commercial and residential uses)  

Vermont Gas Systems customers: Call 802-951-0321 or visit vermontgas.com to determine eligibility and rebate.  

NOTE: Many small business building types that are not eligible for Building Performance  

# How To Redeem  

1. Hire an Efficiency Excellence Network contractor   
2. Work with contractor to install qualified improvements   
3. Contractor reports work to Efficiency Vermont.   
4. Receive $75\%$ of project costs back, up to $\$50000$ .  

# Financing  

Your project may qualify for financing. Call us to learn more.  