# 2024 Montana Code Annotated

## Title 69. Public Utilities and Carriers

### Chapter 8. Electric Utility Industry Generation Reintegration

Part 6. Net Metering


 
 
**69-8-601. Legislative findings.**
 The legislature finds that it is in the public interest to promote net metering because it: 
 
 (1) encourages private investment in renewable energy resources; 
 
 (2) stimulates Montana's economic growth; and 
 
 (3) enhances the continued diversification of the energy resources used in Montana. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 1, Ch. 323, L. 1999. 
   

 
 
**69-8-602. (Temporary) Utility net metering requirements.**
 A utility shall: 
 
 (1) allow net metering systems to be interconnected using a standard kilowatt-hour meter capable of registering the flow of electricity in two directions, unless the commission determines, after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment: 
 
 (a) that the use of additional metering equipment to monitor the flow of electricity in each direction is necessary and appropriate for the interconnection of net metering systems, after taking into account the benefits and costs of purchasing and installing additional metering equipment; and 
 
 (b) how the costs of net metering are to be allocated between the customer-generator and the utility; and 
 
 (2) charge the customer-generator a minimum monthly fee that is the same as other customers of the electric utility in the same rate class. The commission shall determine, after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment if: 
 
 (a) the utility will incur direct costs associated with interconnecting or administering net metering systems that exceed any offsetting benefits associated with these net metering systems; and 
 
 (b) public policy is best served by imposing these costs on the customer-generator, rather than allocating these costs among the utility's entire customer base. 
   
 
**69-8-602. (Effective on occurrence of contingency) Utility net metering requirements.**
 (1) A utility shall allow net metering systems to be interconnected using a standard kilowatt-hour meter capable of registering the flow of electricity in two directions. 
 
 (2) (a) If the commission determines, after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment, that the use of additional metering equipment to monitor the flow of electricity in each direction is necessary and appropriate for the interconnection of net metering systems, the commission may establish additional metering equipment requirements. 
 
 (b) The commission shall consider the benefits and costs to a public utility and a customer-generator of purchasing and installing additional metering equipment and how the costs of additional net metering equipment are to be allocated between the customer-generator and the public utility. 
 
 (3) (a) The commission shall charge the customer-generator an appropriate rate pursuant to 69-3-306. 
 
 (b) Notwithstanding 69-8-610 through 69-8-612, if the commission determines, after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment, that a public utility is incurring direct costs associated with interconnecting or administering net metering systems that exceed any offsetting benefits associated with these net metering systems, the commission may impose these costs on the customer-generator, rather than allocating these costs among the public utility's entire customer base. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 3, Ch. 323, L. 1999; amd. Sec. 16, Ch. 491, L. 2007; amd. Sec. 5, Ch. 248, L. 2017. 
   

 
 
**69-8-603. (Temporary) Net energy measurement calculation.**
 Consistent with the other provisions of this part, the net energy measurement must be calculated in the following manner: 
 
 (1) The utility shall measure the net electricity produced or consumed during the billing period, in accordance with normal metering practices. 
 
 (2) If the electricity supplied by the electricity supplier exceeds the electricity generated by the customer-generator and fed back to the electricity supplier during the billing period, the customer-generator must be billed for the net electricity supplied by the electricity supplier, in accordance with normal metering practices. 
 
 (3) If electricity generated by the customer-generator exceeds the electricity supplied by the electricity supplier, the customer-generator must be: 
 
 (a) billed for the appropriate customer charges for that billing period, in accordance with 69-8-602; and 
 
 (b) credited for the excess kilowatt hours generated during the billing period, with this kilowatt-hour credit appearing on the bill for the following billing period. 
 
 (4) On January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1 of each year, as designated by the customer-generator as the beginning date of a 12-month billing period, any remaining unused kilowatt-hour credit accumulated during the previous 12 months must be granted to the electricity supplier, without any compensation to the customer-generator. 
   
 
**69-8-603. (Effective on occurrence of contingency) Net energy measurement calculation.**
 Consistent with the other provisions of this part, and except as provided in 69-8-611(3), the net energy measurement must be calculated in the following manner: 
 
 (1) The public utility shall measure the net electricity produced or consumed during the billing period, in accordance with normal metering practices. 
 
 (2) If the electricity supplied by the public utility exceeds the electricity generated by the customer-generator and fed back to the public utility during the billing period, the customer-generator must be billed for the net electricity supplied by the public utility and billed at the appropriate rate pursuant to 69-3-306, in accordance with 69-8-602 and 69-8-610 through 69-8-612. 
 
 (3) Subject to 69-8-602 and 69-8-610 through 69-8-612, if electricity generated by the customer-generator exceeds the electricity supplied by the public utility, the customer-generator must be: 
 
 (a) billed at the appropriate rate pursuant to 69-3-306 for that billing period; and 
 
 (b) credited for the excess kilowatt hours generated during the billing period, with this kilowatt-hour credit appearing on the bill for the following billing period. 
 
 (4) On January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1 of each year, as designated by the customer-generator as the beginning date of a 12-month billing period, any remaining unused kilowatt-hour credit accumulated during the previous 12 months must be granted to the public utility, without any compensation to the customer-generator. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 4, Ch. 323, L. 1999; amd. Sec. 1, Ch. 328, L. 2001; amd. Sec. 17, Ch. 491, L. 2007; amd. Sec. 6, Ch. 248, L. 2017. 
   

 
 
**69-8-604. Net metering system -- reliability and safety.**
 (1) A net metering system used by a customer-generator must include, at the customer-generator's own expense, all equipment necessary to meet applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements established by the national electrical code, national electrical safety code, institute of electrical and electronic engineers, and underwriters laboratories. 
 
 (2) The commission, after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment, may adopt by rule additional safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements for customer-generators that the commission determines are necessary to protect public safety and net metering system reliability. 
 
 (3) The commission shall biennially review and update, if necessary, interconnection requirements and rules for customer-generators to ensure that the requirements and rules: 
 
 (a) comply with the most up-to-date national electrical and safety codes and standards; and 
 
 (b) are being properly implemented by public utilities subject to this part and other utilities under the commission's jurisdiction that administer net metering programs. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 5, Ch. 323, L. 1999; amd. Sec. 1, Ch. 410, L. 2017. 
   

 
 
**69-8-605. Applicability.**
 This part does not apply to corporations organized under Title 35, chapter 18. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 6, Ch. 323, L. 1999. 
   

 
 
**69-8-606 through 69-8-609 reserved.**
 
   

 
 
**69-8-610. Cost-benefit analysis.**
 (1) Before April 1, 2018, a public utility shall: 
 
 (a) conduct a study of the costs and benefits of customer-generators as defined in 69-8-103; and 
 
 (b) submit the study to the commission for the purpose of making determinations in accordance with a public utility's general rate case pursuant to 69-8-611. 
 
 (2) The utility may engage independent consultants or advisory services to complete a cost-benefit study. Costs are recoverable in rates. 
 
 (3) After May 3, 2017, the commission may establish minimum information required for inclusion in a study conducted by a public utility in accordance with subsection (1)(a). 
    
 History: En. Sec. 1, Ch. 248, L. 2017. 
   

 
 
**69-8-611. Classification of service -- net metering customers.**
 (1) After a study is completed in accordance with 69-8-610 and subject to subsections (2) and (4) of this section, if the commission finds that customer-generators should be served under a separate classification of service as part of a public utility's general rate case, it shall establish appropriate classifications and rates based on the commission's findings relative to: 
 
 (a) the utility system benefits of the net metering resource; and 
 
 (b) the cost to provide service to customer-generators. 
 
 (2) The commission may, based on differences between net metering systems, establish subclassifications and rates as part of a public utility's general rate case. 
 
 (3) The commission may approve separate rates for customer-generators' production and consumption and require separate metering subject to 69-8-602 if it finds it is in the public interest and as part of a public utility's general rate case. 
 
 (4) If a public utility files a general rate case in accordance with Title 69, chapter 3, the general rate case must include the study required in accordance with 69-8-610 and be used by the commission to meet the requirements of the review of classifications of service required in this section. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 2, Ch. 248, L. 2017. 
   

 
 
**69-8-612. New classifications of service -- grandfather clause.**
 (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), if the commission approves new classifications of service for customer-generators in accordance with 69-8-611, the new classifications apply only to customer-generators interconnecting net metering systems on or after the date on which the commission adopts a final order implementing the new classifications. 
 
 (2) (a) A customer-generator that interconnects a net metering system prior to commission approval of new classifications of service for customer-generators may accept service under the new classifications of service at any time. 
 
 (b) After accepting service under a new classification of service, the customer-generator may not return to its original classification of service. 
    
 History: En. Sec. 3, Ch. 248, L. 2017. 
   