# LEVEL 2 ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT REIMBURSEMENT REBATE PROGRAM 2022  

# Arkansas Department of Energy & Environment Arkansas Energy Office  

# Who is the Arkansas Energy Office?  

The mission of the Arkansas Energy Office (AEO) is to promote energy efficiency, clean technology and sustainable strategies that encourage economic development, energy security, and environmental well-being for all citizens of Arkansas.  

The Arkansas Energy Office offers help for businesses, communities, and residents through energy performance contracting and other financing programs; partnerships to promote use of alternative fuels for transportation; low-income household energy and utility assistance; weatherization assistance; state energy codes; energy efficiency outreach and education; training and certifications; and other strategies.  

Governor Asa Hutchinson designated The Arkansas Department of Energy & Environment (E&E) as the lead agency for the implementation of programs to reduce harmful emissions using funds provided by the Volkswagen Environmental Mitigation Trust. The Arkansas Energy Office will administer the Level 2 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) Reimbursement Rebate Program.  

# Purpose  

The purpose of this program is to allow organizations to qualify for a reimbursement rebate for the installation of EVSE. To receive a reimbursement rebate, eligible participants must submit an application to E&E which will issue reimbursement rebates on a first-come, first-served basis. No reservations will be accepted and incomplete applications will have to reapply.  

During the 2022 program year of funding, E&E is allocating $\$215,563.00$ to be awarded for Level 2 EVSE reimbursement rebates. Funds will be available until December 1, 2022, or until all allocated funds have been committed.  

The Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate Program provides reimbursement rebates based on the price of the EVSE installed on or after February 1, 2022. Applications must be received by E&E within sixty (60) days of the date the equipment installation was completed. Approved applications received before the end of the 2021 program year which did not receive full funding are eligible for reimbursement rebates in the 2022 program year.  

# Additional Information  

Address questions related to the Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate Program to: EnergyInfo@adeq.state.ar.us or contact Jason Willey, AEO Policy Manager, at (501) 682-0962. An explanatory webinar and an updated total of available funds are available at https://www.adeq.state.ar.us/energy/  

Electric Vehicle Equipment Supply (EVSE) – the conductors, including the ungrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding conductors and the electric vehicle connectors, attachment plugs, and all other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatus installed specifically to deliver energy from the premises wiring to the electric vehicle.  

Equipment Purchase Price – purchase price of the charging mechanism only. The following are not considered to be part of the equipment purchase price for this funding assistance: site acquisition; electrical panels and switchgear; engineering, design, and permitting; utility upgrades; project management; construction; and data service plan costs.  

Electric Vehicle (EV) – a vehicle that produces no emissions from the onboard source of power.  

Government – a State, federal, or local government agency (including a school district, municipality, city, county, special district, transit district, joint powers authority, or port authority, owning fleets purchased with government funds), and a tribal government.  

Government-owned property available to the public – means any property that is owned by an Arkansas state agency or Arkansas government entity. EVSE at these locations must be available to the general public and must have an open payment method, including acceptance of credit and fleet cards if payment is required for charging at the EVSE.  

Level 2 EVSE – a freestanding or wall-mounted charging structure capable of being networked that delivers a 208/240Vcharge via an SAE J1772 or “J” plug.  

Light-Duty Vehicles – Class 1 and 2 vehicles that have a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of less than 10,000 lbs.  

Multi-Unit Dwelling (without public access) – means any property where EVSE is installed for use by the residents living in that specific complex. EVSE at these locations are NOT available to the general public.  

Operation and Maintenance Costs – the costs necessary for, and directly connected to, the operation and maintenance of new light-duty electric vehicle supply equipment.  

NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) - defines standards used in North America for various grades of electrical enclosures typically used in industrial applications.  

Networked – means having access to a data network via cellular, Ethernet, WIFI or some other form of connection that provides real-time information to drivers regarding location and  

availability of the EVSE and collects and transmits data on charging supply utilization, including kilowatt hours dispensed and time of use, to a platform accessible by E&E.  

Non-Government – any property that is not owned by State or a local government agency. Types of eligible properties include but are not limited to refueling stations, restaurants, shopping facilities, gyms, etc. EVSE at these locations must be available to the general public and must have an open payment method, including acceptance of credit and fleet cards if payment is required for charging at the EVSE. Private residences are excluded.  

Non-Government-owned property available to the public – means any property that is not owned by State or local government agency. Types of eligible properties include but are not limited to refueling stations, restaurants, shopping facilities, gyms, etc. EVSE at these locations must be available to the general public and must have an open payment method, including acceptance of credit and fleet cards if payment is required for charging at the EVSE. Private residences are excluded.  

Owner – the entity owning and operating the EVSE at the site.  

Private Entity - any entity that is not a unit of government, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, company, or other legal entity.  

Publically Accessible – EVSE that is accessible for public use, without restrictions, during the site host’s normal business hours. Examples of restrictions include club or membership card access restrictions, or site limitations, such as a station being located behind a gated fence.  

Public Entity – the state and units of state government; a political subdivision of the state, including a municipality and its subdivisions; a school district; or an organization composed of political subdivisions of the state.  

Site – means one or more contiguous or adjacent properties that are under common control of the same person or organization.  

Site Host – is an entity or organization that has installed EVSE at their location/on their property.  

Workplace (without public access) – means any property where EVSE is installed for use by the employees/staff of that entity. EVSE at these locations are NOT available to the general public.  

# Eligible Applicants  

Any public or private entity is eligible to apply\*.   Applicants must construct an EVSE on a site located in Arkansas. Upon completion of the project, the organization must own the EVSE equipment. Only owners of EVSE equipment may apply for a reimbursement rebate.  

\*Individuals, Electrify America, Volkswagen AG, Audi AG, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., and Volkswagen Group of America Chattanooga Operations are ineligible for funding under this program  

# Eligible Equipment  

Eligible equipment for funding under this program includes new, permanent construction of new networked Level 2 EVSE. Installed equipment must meet the following specifications:  

• 208/240V with an SAE J1772 or “J” plug Minimum output of 7 kilowatts (kW) AC output installed within the State of Arkansas where the EVSE is available to the general public for charging of electric vehicles.  

# Eligible Sites  

Sites meeting the following criteria will be considered eligible for funding:  

• A public location (government-owned and non-government-owned) where the EVSE is accessible to the public during the site host’s normal business hours.   
• A workplace where the EVSE is available to employees but is not typically available to the general public; and   
• A multi-unit dwelling (minimum of eight units) where EVSE is available to residents but is not typically available to the general public.  

A maximum of ten (10) Level 2 EVSE chargers are eligible under this reimbursement rebate program per property. A maximum of twenty (20) Level 2 EVSE chargers are eligible under this reimbursement rebate program per owner.  

# Eligible Expenses  

All project expenses must be necessary for and directly related to the acquisition, installation, operation, and maintenance of the EVSE. Project costs eligible for reimbursement may include, but are not limited to the following:  

• Networked Level 2 EVSE with a minimum of 7kW output located within the State of Arkansas EVSE installation costs directly associated with and required for the installation and safe operation of EVSE Maintenance & Network plans (minimum of five years)  

# Ineligible Expenses  

The following are NOT ELIGIBLE under the Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate Program:  

• Purchase or rental of real estate   
• Other capital costs (e.g., construction of buildings, parking facilities, etc.) or general maintenance (i.e., maintenance other than the supply equipment) Administrative costs EVSE installations completed prior to January 1, 2022   
• EVSE located at a private residence Leased or pre-owned equipment   
• Upgrades to or replacement of existing EVSE equipment  

Reimbursement rebates will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis up to the equipment purchase price and installation cost of the EVSE multiplied by the eligible reimbursement rebate percentage, not to exceed the maximum reimbursement rebate in dollars. The eligible reimbursement rebate percentage is assigned based on organization type. The maximum reimbursement rebate cap in dollars is based on the number of charging ports on the eligible EVSE. The table below shows the reimbursement rebate amounts available for Level 2 EVSE.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>SeeDefinitionsfor explanation of each organization type listed below</td><td>Reimbursement Rebate Percentage</td><td>Maximum Reimbursement Rebate in Dollars (One Charging Port)</td><td>Maximum Reimbursement Rebate in Dollars (Two or More Charging Ports)</td></tr><tr><td>Government-owned (with public access)</td><td>90%</td><td>$6,850</td><td>$9,300</td></tr><tr><td>Non-Government- owned (with public access)</td><td>70%</td><td>$5,325</td><td>$7,225</td></tr><tr><td>Workplace (without public access)</td><td>50%</td><td>$1,875</td><td>$3,375</td></tr><tr><td>Multi-Unit Dwelling (without public access)</td><td>50%</td><td>$1,875</td><td>$3,375</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Reimbursement rebate will be based on the applicable percentage listed in the table or the applicable maximum reimbursement rebate amount in dollars, whichever one is less.  

Applications must be submitted by the owner of the installed EVSE. All applications will be submitted online at E&E’s ePortal system. Applications submitted via U.S. Mail or other mail entities will NOT be accepted. Applications hand-delivered to E&E will also NOT be accepted.  

The following supporting documentation must be attached to the application:  

Copy of itemized paid invoice(s), itemized receipt(s), or itemized equivalent proof of payment for EVSE equipment. Must include a detailed, paid vendor invoice with at least the following information:  

 Model number, description, and equipment purchase price of EVSE   
 Network Service Plan price   
 Station Activation price   
 Sales Tax   
 Invoice Date  

Copy of paid invoice(s), itemized receipt(s), or itemized equivalent proof of payment for installation and labor. • Copy of building/electrical permit authorizing operation of installed EVSE (if applicable) Drawing or Blueprint of site dimensions as-built. Photos of completed EVSE installation and surrounding site. Explanation of how project owner will collect and submit EVSE utilization data to E&E  

The effective date of this program is February 1, 2022. Only installations completed after this date, as identified by the final building permit approval date attached to the application, are eligible. However, approved applications received before the end of the 2021 program year which did not receive full funding are eligible for reimbursement rebates in the 2022 program year.  

An incomplete application will be considered ineligible for consideration until all necessary supporting documents are provided to E&E. Complete applications will be considered for reimbursement rebate funds on a first-come, first-served basis.  

The project owner of equipment funded under this program must meet the following requirements and specifications:  

# Networking  

All Level 2 EVSE funded under this program must be connected to a data network via cellular, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, or some other form. For a minimum of five years, the project owner must maintain connection of equipment funded under this program to a network data service platform with the following capabilities:  

• Track station’s utilization data for reporting purposes. Support contactless payments if payment will be required for charging at the EVSE.   
Provide driver support for twenty-four (24) hours a day including location, payment support, and if EVSE is operational.  

The project owner must give E&E permission and the capability to access the webbased utilization data as a third-party administrator (see Reporting Requirements). Project Owner must ensure reporting of charging data biannually and must maintain appropriate EV charging network hardware and software capable of remote diagnostics, remote start of the equipment, and reporting usage data for a minimum of five years.  

# Facility Design Requirements  

All EVSE must utilize the SAE J1772 charge coupler.  

Dual-port charging stations and/or charging stations with the capability of charging multiple vehicles at one time are considered one station under the Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate Program.  

Charging stations must function using Open Charge Point Protocol.  

The charging enclosure must be constructed for outdoor use in accordance with either the UL50 Standard for Enclosures for Electrical Equipment, NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) Type 3R exterior enclosure standards, or an equivalent.  

Charging equipment must be capable of operating without any decrease in performance over an ambient temperature range of minus 22 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit with a relative humidity of up to ninety-five percent.  

The project must incorporate a design for a cord management system or method to eliminate the potential for cable entanglement, user injury, or connector damage from lying on the ground.  

# Payment  

Where owners/operators assess a fee for charging services, each charging station must be payment card industry compliant to allow contactless payments. Stations may also offer additional payment methods, including subscription methods, smart cards, or smartphone applications. Real-time pricing and fee information shall be displayed on the device or payment screen. Charging station equipment may allow for flexible pricing, including, but not limited to, per minute or hour, by space, or by time of day.  

# Parking  

Projects must include paved parking spaces that are marked to accommodate the maximum number of vehicles allowed for simultaneous charging.  

# Signage  

“Electric Vehicle Parking Only While Charging” signs are required on each side of each charging station. The Federal Highway Administration defines minimum standards and specifications for signage.  

# Legal Compliance  

Project owners must ensure that development, project installation, and maintenance comply with all applicable state and federal laws, ordinances, regulations, and standards.  

# Operation and Maintenance  

E&E requires the purchase of at least a five (5) year maintenance plan for each charging unit. Additionally, the unit must continually be in full working order to the extent possible. Should repair be necessary, charging units shall be fully operational within seventy-two (72) hours of equipment failure to ensure a ninety-five percent $(95\%)$ annual uptime guarantee. Otherwise, prorated repayment of the awarded funding will be required.  

Funding recipients shall submit proof of a maintenance plan to E&E prior to project completion as a condition of final payment approval.  

# Warranty  

All charging station equipment must have at least a five-year warranty. Applicants must submit proof of the charging station equipment warranty as a condition of receiving a reimbursement rebate.  

# Accessibility  

The services must be accessible to the public during the site host’s normal business hours, without calling ahead. The stations must be equipped to accept an open payment method, including acceptance of contactless payments if payment will be required for charging at the EVSE. The EVSE must be ADA compliant. Also see the Dept. of Energy ADA Requirements  

# Accreditation  

Project owners must provide documentation that a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) program certified the charging equipment. Recipients may access a list of accredited NRTLs online here.  

# Station Registration  

E&E requires project applicants to register the location with the Alternative Fuel Data Center station locator tool at the Alternative Fuels Data Center upon completion of the project.  

# Reporting  

E&E requires reporting of network charging data for a period of five (5) years. See detailed guidance in this document.  

# Competency  

EVSE must be new equipment installed by a qualified and licensed contractor in accordance with all state and local codes, permitting, and inspection requirements.  

# Partial Funding  

If available program funds do not allow an approved applicant to receive a full reimbursement rebate, the applicant may instead elect to receive the remaining balance of funds. Acceptance of the remaining balance of funds (i.e. partial reimbursement) will be deemed to have fully satisfied the applicant’s reimbursement rebate request.  

# Failure to Maintain Equipment and Network  

The applicant agrees to maintain the EVSE in good working order, to promptly repair any non- or under-performing equipment, and to maintain a network data service plan for transmission of usage data to a network data service platform for a minimum of five (5) years. Additionally, the unit must continually be in full working order to the extent possible. Should repair be necessary, charging units shall be fully operational within seventy-two (72) hours of equipment failure to ensure a ninety-five percent $(95\%)$ annual uptime guarantee. Otherwise, prorated repayment of the awarded funding will be required.  

The repayment schedule will be based on the period of continuous operation, maintenance, and network data service rounded to the nearest month according to the following table:  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Period of Operation, Maintenance, and Data Service</td><td>Repayment (% of reimbursement rebate award)</td></tr><tr><td>12 months or less</td><td>100%</td></tr><tr><td>>12 months, but ≤24 months</td><td>80%</td></tr><tr><td>>24 months, but ≤36 months</td><td>60%</td></tr><tr><td>>36 months, but ≤48 months</td><td>40%</td></tr><tr><td>>48 months, but ≤60 months</td><td>20%</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Record Retention  

E&E maintains the right to audit up to five (5) years of submitted paperwork, digital records, and charging data at any time.  

# Public Disclosure  

All or part of any application is subject to the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act and can be made public.  

# Disclaimer  

E&E makes no representations, expressed or implied, regarding the design, construction, reliability, performance, operation, maintenance, or use of any equipment awarded under the Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate Program. Any decision regarding the selection, design, purchase, installation, use, and operation of any equipment other than the terms and conditions specified above shall be at the sole discretion and are the sole responsibility of the applicant.  

Level 2 EVSE Reimbursement Rebate recipients are required to report charging data to (E&E) for a term of five (5) years. Please follow these instructions when reporting.  

# Designated Employee  

• Please designate one employee E&E may contact about reporting for your EVSE station(s).   
This employee must be authorized to access all charging data and have knowledge of the network reporting system.  

# Reporting Schedule  

Reports must be submitted to E&E February 1 and August 1 of each year for the five-year period following the rebate. Begin reporting with the first date after installation. 2021 recipients should submit a one-time report beginning with station online date through Jan. 32. 2022.  

# Data Types  

The required data includes but is not limited to the following:  

Charging Session Id   
Charging Session Date   
Charging Session Start/End Times Total Time Plugged In   
Total Time Spent Charging   
Total Energy Dispensed (Kwh)   
Total Transaction Fee   
Charging Station Id   
Plug Id   
Charging Plug Type   
Maximum Power Output (Kwh)   
City, State, Zip Code   
Venue Type   
Charging Station Activation Date. Percentage of station downtime  

# Additional Requirements  

1. You may submit required data in Excel or Comma Separated Value (CSV) formats.  

2. Emission calculations including GHG Savings (kg) and Gasoline Savings (gallons) may also be reported if calculated by the network service.  

3. Reports must be submitted to EVSEReporting@adeq.state.ar.us  

a. Subject Line: (Owner Name) EVSE Reporting (Month and Year)  

# Third Party Administrator Access  

Please confirm E&E has been granted third-party administrator access to the network monitoring account for all EVSE receiving rebate funding.  

1. Login - Please use EVSEReporting@adeq.state.ar.us for E&E’s third party account and to submit your reporting data.  

2. Third party account access will vary among EVSE network providers. If E&E is not sent a link to create a password, please email login information to: EVSEReporting@adeq.state.ar.us  

The reporting guidance is subject to change. Owners will be contacted with any updates.  

# Questions  

Should you have any questions, please contact:   
Jason Willey   
EnergyInfo@adeq.state.ar.us   
501-682-0962  