# Clean Energy Fund 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-03-07 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-05-22 00:00:00 
 ***state** : New Hampshire 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Loan Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit 
 ***administrator*** : New Hampshire Community Development Finance Authority 
 ***budget*** : $10 million 
 ***Maximum Loan*** : $500,000

 
 ***Loan Term*** : Up to 10 years

 
 ***Interest Rate*** : Depends on the type of applicant entity.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Anaerobic Digestion, Biomass, Fuel Cells using Renewable Fuels, Geothermal Electric, Geothermal Heat Pumps, Hydroelectric, Hydroelectric (Small), Solar Photovoltaics, Wind (All), Wind (Small), Yes; specific technologies not identified 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 500000.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 The New Hampshire Community Development Finance Authority's (CDFA) Clean
Energy Fund invests in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects for
cost reduction purposes -- specifically for businesses, non-profits, and
municipalities. The fund is capitalized at over $10 million and merges four
individual revolving loan funds dedicated to energy efficiency improvements
and various clean/renewable energy initiatives, all into a single program
(some specific limitations may apply).

Funding comes from both federal and state sources, including CDFA's own funds.
Projects eligible for funding are those resulting in a minimum energy savings
of 15%, among other criteria. Project examples include LED lighting retrofits,
weatherization, community solar and rooftop solar, and heat pumps, among
others.

Loan amounts range from $30,000 to $500,000, and loans down to $15,000 will be
considered for certain municipal projects. The loan term is up to 10 years,
with a potentially longer period for renewable energy projects. Applicants may
qualify for at least one discount with a minimum lending rate of 2.0%.

Pre-application consultation with CDFA staff is required before submitting a
formal application. Contact CDFA at 603-226-2170 or email the Director of
Clean Energy Financing, Scott Maslanksy.

For more information view the [application and program
guide.](https://resources.nhcdfa.org/programs/clean-energy-fund/application/)

 
 