# Energy-Efficient Retrofits Grant Application and Guide  

DUE: December 13, 2024, 11:59 PM, CST  

State Energy Program (SEP) FY2025  

Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs  

AUTHORITY..   
PURPOSE.   
GRANT APPLICATION GUIDELINES   
ELIGIBILITY. 3 FUNDING.   
METHOD OF PAYMENT..   
ELIGIBLE MEASURES   
INELIGIBLE MEASURES   
PROHIBITED EXPENDITURES.   
COST SHARE.   
JUSTICE40INITIATIVE 5  

# ENERGY-EFFICIENT RETROFITS PROGRAM GRANT APPLICATION..  

A. Applicant Information . 6   
B. Budget ..... 7   
C. Project Detail and Energy Savings Information. 11   
1. SITE INFORMATION. 11   
2. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT .. .11   
3. QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE OF APPLICANT . 12   
4. ENERGY-RELATED ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE OF PROJECT . .12   
5. PROJECT PLAN . .13   
6. ENERGY-EFFICIENT RETROFITS. .14   
7. ENERGY SAVINGS CALCULATIONS .15   
8. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. .16   
D. Certifications . 17  

# State Energy Program FY25 Grant Application and Guide Energy-Efficient Retrofits  

# AUTHORITY  

The Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs (ADECA), Energy Division manages the State Energy Program (SEP) for Alabama by the authority of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). Title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), as amended, authorizes the Department of Energy (DOE) to administer the State Energy Program (SEP). All Grant awards made under this program shall comply with applicable law, including regulations contained in 2 CFR Part 200 as amended by 2 CFR Part 910, 10 CFR Part 420, and other procedures applicable to this regulation as DOE may, from time-to-time, prescribe for the administration of financial assistance.  

# PURPOSE  

The SEP is a formula grant used to reduce energy consumption in Alabama. The Energy Division is accepting applications for grants to be used for the purchase and installation of energy-efficient improvements.  Applications should be developed with thoughtful consideration being given to the certifications contained on page 17.  

# GRANT APPLICATION GUIDELINES  

Applications shall be submitted in PDF format to sep@adeca.alabama.gov by 11:59 PM, CST on December 13, 2024. Any applications received after the deadline will not be considered. All applications must be complete; however, ADECA reserves the right to contact applicants for additional information and/or clarifications.  

A confirmation of receipt will be emailed after submittal. Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit applications in advance of the deadline.  Please keep a complete copy of your application and any attachments for your record.  

Questions pertaining to this Grant Application and Guide may be submitted in writing by email to sep@adeca.alabama.gov.  

This Grant Application and Guide and Frequently Asked Questions can be found on ADECA’s website at https://adeca.alabama.gov/about/funding-opportunities/.  

NOTE: Applicants may submit applications under both this funding announcement and the Energy-Efficient Retrofits of Wastewater Treatment Facilities. However, measures directly related to wastewater operations may not be submitted under this funding opportunity. Only general site efficiency measures, such as LED lighting at wastewater facilities, may be submitted under this funding announcement.  

# ELIGIBILITY  

Eligible applicants include the following entities that are located in the State of Alabama;  

• Incorporated units of local government (municipalities and counties)   
• Public K-12 school systems   
• Non-profit organizations  

Below is a definition of a non-profit organization for the purposes of this Grant Application and Guide:  

A non-profit organization is an organization that uses its surplus revenues to further achieve its purpose or mission, rather than distributing its surplus income to the organization’s directors (or equivalents) as profit or dividends. Applicants must have the status of a 501(c) organization and be tax-exempt in order to apply.  

# FUNDING  

Projects must be completed within 7 months of the effective date of the grant agreement. The Energy Division anticipates awarding grants to begin on March 3, 2025, and to terminate no later than September 30, 2025.  

All projects will be scored based on the established rating criteria. The criteria can be found at https://adeca.alabama.gov/about/funding-opportunities/. Those eligible projects receiving the highest scores will be selected for funding. The number of projects funded will be determined by the funds available and the total amount of requests made. The Energy Division reserves the right to reallocate funding for subject areas as deemed necessary. ADECA may request amended projects and/or offer reduced grant participation.  

Total Available: At least $\$745,000$ Minimum Award: $\$25,000$ per applicant Maximum Award: $\$50,000$ per applicant.  

# METHOD OF PAYMENT  

Payments may be made on a reimbursement basis or an advance basis. Subrecipients qualifying for advance payment must provide that it maintains or demonstrates the willingness to maintain both written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the subrecipient, and financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in 2 CFR Part 200. Subrecipients may also elect to be paid through reimbursement of eligible costs up to the award amount in the grant agreement. Based on a risk assessment conducted by ADECA, all subrecipients will be assigned a risk score.  

Those subrecipients with higher scores may be required to follow different payment procedures.   
Those subrecipients considered high risk may be placed on reimbursement only status.  

All subrecipients must register in the State of Alabama Accounting and Resource System (STAARS) Vendor Self Service (VSS) portal in order to receive payment. Subrecipients can elect to be paid via Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) or paper check when registering.  

# ELIGIBLE MEASURES  

Energy-efficient lighting   
HVAC Replacement   
Programmable Thermostats   
Photovoltaic Systems o Must be on existing Rooftops and Parking Shade Structures or; o $\mathrm{A}\leq60$ KW system unit installed on the ground within the boundaries of an existing facility.   
Solar Thermal Systems must be $\leq20$ KW  

# INELIGIBLE MEASURES  

• Energy-efficient windows and doors   
• Photovoltaic Systems outside the boundaries of an existing facility Solar Thermal Systems over 20 KW  

# PROHIBITED EXPENDITURES  

SEP regulation 10 CFR Part 420 -- State Energy Program does not allow expenditures or matching contributions for the following:  

• For construction or repair of buildings and structures;   
$\bullet$ To purchase land, a building or structure;   
• To subsidize fares for public transportation;   
$\bullet$ To subsidize utility rate demonstration or state tax credits; or • To conduct or purchase equipment to conduct research, development, or demonstration.  

# COST SHARE  

No matching contributions are required. However, an applicant can earn up to five additional points on their rating score for match provided.  

# JUSTICE40 INITIATIVE  

SEP is a Justice40 covered program and as such contributes to the President’s goal that $40\%$ of the overall project benefits of Federal investments in clean energy and climate solutions flow to Disadvantaged Communities (DAC) that for too long have faced disinvestment and underinvestment. DOE strongly encourages eligible entities to maximize project benefits and describe how these benefits with ADECA ensures that DOE’s intent will be met regarding selecting projects that will provide benefits for underserved communities.  

Benefits include (but are not limited to) measurable direct or indirect investments or positive project outcomes that achieve or contribute to the following in DACs:  

(1) A decrease in energy burden;   
(2) A decrease in environmental exposure and burdens;   
(3) An increase in access to low-cost capital;   
(4) An increase in job creation, the clean energy job pipeline, and job training for individuals;   
(5) Increases in clean energy enterprise creation and contracting (e.g. minority-owned or disadvantaged business enterprises);   
(6) Increases in energy democracy, including community ownership;   
(7) Increased parity in clean energy technology access and adoption; and   
(8) An increase in energy resilience.  

Not all eight policy priorities will be applicable to all DOE programs or funding opportunities.  

APPLICANTS MUST USE THE FOLLOWING APPLICATION FORMAT AND COMPLETE IN ITS ENTIRETY. FAILURE TO DO SO MAY RESULT IN LOSS OF POINTS.  

# A. Applicant Information This section is worth 10 points.  

Legal Name of Entity:  

Type of Organization: (Choose One:)  

Employer ID Number (EIN):  

# Mailing Address:  

Project Director Name & Title:  

Phone Number:  

Email:  

CEO Name and Title:  

Accountant Name and Title:  

B. Budget  

This section is worth up to 25 points. Please provide the following information to explain the estimated costs for the project budget. (Attach additional sheets as needed.)  

# 1. Personnel and Fringe  

List program personnel by title, include the salary amount of each person to be reimbursed for work on the project (Example: An employee with an annual salary of $\$40,000$ that will spend $25\%$ of their time on the project, will have a salary budget of \$10,000). Next, enter the fringe rate. Personnel can include the Applicant’s employees who will be installing the improvements. Personnel costs under a contract should be included under Contractual.  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td colspan="2">GrantAmount</td><td colspan="2">Matching Contribution</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Title</td><td rowspan="2">Salary</td><td rowspan="2">Fringe</td><td rowspan="2">Salary</td><td rowspan="2">Fringe</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# 2. Supplies and Materials  

List estimated type and cost of supplies and materials. Includes all tangible property and project materials for carrying out the approved scope of work that are not considered equipment (e.g. office supplies, postage, caulking, lighting). Materials supplied by a contractor are not allowed in this category and should be placed under Contractual.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Type</td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution</td><td>TOTAL</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>0$</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# 3. Contracted Services  

List categories of services to be contracted with outside agencies or for professional services. Note that written subcontracts must be obtained to engage these services. This category includes professional installation and all materials supplied by the installer.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Contracted Services</td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution</td><td>TOTAL</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$O</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# 4. Equipment  

Provide a description of the equipment, cost, and reason why it is necessary to purchase the equipment. Equipment is defined as tangible, non-expendable property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of \$10,000 or more per unit. Acquisition cost means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of any modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make it usable for the purpose for which it is acquired. (Note: leased or rented equipment should be listed under the “Other” category.)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Description</td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution</td><td>TOTAL</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$O</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$0</td><td>$O</td><td>$O</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# 5. Other  

List other costs including printing, graphics, telephone, rent/lease, maintenance, workshop fees, and computer services.   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Expense</td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution</td><td>TOTAL</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$O</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td></tr></table></body></html>  

6. Indirect  

The ADECA, Energy Division will reimburse indirect costs at the Subrecipient’s federally negotiated indirect cost rate of the Modified Total Direct Costs (MTDC) (items 1-7, except 6). The ADECA, Energy Division DOES NOT REIMBURSE INDIRECT COSTS ON EQUIPMENT PURCHASES).  Attach a copy of your indirect cost rate agreement if you are showing indirect costs on your budget. The ADECA, Energy Division will not negotiate indirect cost rates with Subrecipients but will accept a federally negotiated indirect cost rate or a 15 percent de minimis rate of the MTDC. If requesting the 15 percent de minimis rate, Subrecipients must submit a certification the entity has never received a federally approved indirect cost rate.  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution</td><td>TOTAL</td></tr><tr><td>Indirect Cost Rate</td><td>%</td><td></td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# BUDGET TOTALS  

List the totals of each budget category above. Please make sure that the totals in each budget category listed above match the totals of each cost category below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Cost Categories</td><td>Grant Amount</td><td>Matching Contribution (not required)</td><td>Project Amount</td></tr><tr><td>Personnel</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td>Fringe</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>Supplies & Materials</td><td>0$</td><td>$0</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>Contracted Services</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>Equipment</td><td>0$</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td>0$</td><td>$o</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>Indirect Cost ( (%</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$o</td></tr><tr><td>TOTAL</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td><td>$0</td></tr></table></body></html>  

C. Project Detail and Energy Savings Information  

This section is worth up to 55 points and describes the project, timeline, and projected savings. Submit one copy of this section for each site/building/location. You may attach additional sheets for this section if necessary.  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5">1. SITE INFORMATION (This section is worth up to 5 points)</td></tr><tr><td>Name of Site:</td><td colspan="4"></td></tr><tr><td>Physical Address (City, State, Zip):</td><td colspan="4"></td></tr><tr><td>County:</td><td colspan="4"></td></tr><tr><td>Gross Square Footage:</td><td>ft2</td><td>Construction Date:</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Funding Requested for this Site:</td><td colspan="4"></td></tr><tr><td>Estimated Completion Time:</td><td colspan="4">months</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Does the site have any national or state historic site designations?</td><td>Yes No</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Is the applicant aware of any adverse environmental impact which may arise from the implementation of any of the proposed energy conservation measures?</td><td>Yes No</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>2.DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT (This section is worth up to5 points)</td></tr><tr><td>Provide a brief description of the measures to be installed.</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>3.QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE OF APPLICANT (This section is worth up to 5 points) Description of the qualifications and experience of the applicant pertaining to the administration of grant</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>4.ENERGY-RELATEDACTIVITIES OUTSIDEOFPROJECT (Thissection isworthupto4points) Provide information on activities outside of the proposed project related to energy efficiency, renewable energy, or conservation, including performance contract, other retrofit activity, energy assessments completed, maintenance staff or teacher education, student curriculum,recycling programs,or similar projects.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">5.PROJECT PLAN (This section is worth up to 6 points)</td></tr><tr><td>Deliverables (Description of task and what is to be accomplished. Must include but not limited to procuring supplies and materials/contractsandinstallation)</td><td>Estimated Cost</td><td>Start Date (mm/yy)</td><td>Duration (days)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>6. ENERGY-EFFICIENTRETROFITS (Thissectionisworthupto15points)</td></tr><tr><td>Please complete the following charts of all eligible measures that will be installed. Use additional pages if necessary.</td></tr><tr><td>EACHMEASURELISTEDMUSTHAVEAPAYBACKPERIODIOYEARSORLESS</td></tr><tr><td>(PHOTOVOLTAICEXCEPTED)</td></tr><tr><td>SAVINGSCALCULATIONSMUSTBESHOWNINSECTION7FOREACHMEASURE</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">CURRENT</td><td colspan="2">PROPOSED</td><td rowspan="2">Est. Cost</td><td rowspan="2">Est. Annual Savings</td><td rowspan="2">Est. Payback Period</td></tr><tr><td>Qty</td><td>Type, Age, Size, R-Value, etc.</td><td>Qty</td><td>Type, Age, Size, etc.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>yrs.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">7.ENERGYSAVINGSCALCULATIONS (This section is worth up to 15 points)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Sample calculation for a lighting retrofit project:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Currentlighting: Proposedlighting: Watts per fixture:90 Wattsperfixture:14 Numberoffixtures:245 Numberoffixtures:225</td></tr></table></body></html>  

(Please show work here or attach to application)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>8.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (Any additional information you wish to provide regarding your proposed measure)</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

D. Certifications (This section is worth 10 points)  

# By signing below, the applicant certifies that they have completed or will complete (if issued an award) the following:  

# GRANT ADMINISTRATION  

• Obtain a Unique Entity ID (UEI) Number (formerly DUNS)   
• Obtain an Employer Identification Number (EIN). Register with the State of Alabama Accounting and Resource System (STAARS) Vendor Self Service (VSS) portal. Register with the Alabama Secretary of State’s office if a non-profit, corporation, partnership, or LLC.   
Maintain an active registration in the System for Award Management (SAM) at https://www.sam.gov   
• If applicable, possess a business privilege license from the probate judge in the county where the business is located   
PROCUREMENT   
• Adhere to the Build America, Buy America provision where any projects more than $\$250,000.00$ that are categorized as “Infrastructure Projects” will require that any iron,steel, manufactured goods, and construction materials used in the project to be produced in the United States. • All laborers and mechanics employed by the applicant, subrecipients, contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction, alteration, or repair work funded in whole or in part under this ALRD shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar projects in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code commonly referred to as the “Davis-Bacon Act” (DBA). • Adhere to the “Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act” (Act 2011-535) that requires all employers within the State of Alabama to verify the legal presence of their employees. Verification is accomplished through registration in the federal E-Verify program at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s website  or through the Alabama Department of Homeland Security’s E-Verify Employer Agent Service for Alabama businesses with 25 or fewer employees.  

• Maintain a written procurement policy and follow proper procurement procedures as stated in 2 CFR Parts 200 and 910, all applicable subparts or appendices, and the Alabama Competitive Bid and Public Works Law.  

# REPORTING  

• Submit applicable supporting documentation including but not limited to contractor invoices and proof of payment.   
• Submit data collected on the proposed project in quarterly program status reports. Submit a final report within 30 days following the completion of the project which will include information such as reduction in energy consumption and energy cost savings. Implement the use of ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager. Portfolio Manager is an interactive energy management tool that allows tracking and assessing energy and water consumption.  

# Certification  

I, the undersigned, am authorized to obligate my entity and enter into agreements for my organization. I understand that the above certifications do not guarantee funding and a grant agreement will be executed prior to project funds being expended. I further understand that if the above statements cannot be verified, no grant funds will be awarded under this program. Finally, to the best of my knowledge the above certifications are true and correct.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="5"></td><td>Requested Grant Amount:</td><td>$0</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Matching Contribution:</td><td colspan="2">$0</td></tr><tr><td>Matching Contribution Type</td><td colspan="2">(Choose One:)</td></tr><tr><td>Total Project Cost</td><td colspan="2">$0</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Applicant:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Signature of Authorized Signatory:</td><td colspan="2">Date:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Title of Signatory:</td></tr></table></body></html>  