# PSE&G Electric Vehicle Charging Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-06-02 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-06-02 19:25:01 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: Utility 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Investor-Owned Utility, Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2021-06-15 04:00:00 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Residential: $1,500 for Level 2 EVSE make-ready infrastructure. $5,000
discount for utility-side make-ready costs.  
Commerical: $7,500 per Level 2 EVSE Port for make-ready infrastructure.
Discount of up to $10,000 in utility-side make-ready costs.  
Public DCFC: $25,000 per port for make-ready infrastructure. Discount of up to
$50,000 for utility-side make-ready costs.

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Residential: $1,500 per site  
Commercial Level 2: $30,000 per site  
Public DCFC: $100,000 per site  

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Direct Current Fast Charging Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Commercial, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 25000.0 $/Unit 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Make-Ready Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Commercial, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 5000.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Level-2 Electric Vehicle Service Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Residential, Commercial, Commercial, Commercial 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1500.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) launched its Clean Energy Future -
Electric Vehicle Program in June 2021. Ad of January 27, 2023, the program had
$4.4 million in remaining funding.  

  

The EV Program has a residential, commercial, and public DC Fast Charging
subprogram, each with individual eligibility requirements outlined on the
program website.  

  

**The Residential Subprogram** offers an on-bill credit of $1,500 toward the
cost of customer-side upgrades for installing a Level 2 EV Charger. Customers
can also qualify for up to $5,000 of utility-side make ready upgrades to
support EVSE installations. Customers may receive a credit of $0.02/kWh for
charging during off-peak times.  

  

**The Commercial Subprogram** offers on-bill credits of up to $30,000 per site
for customer-side make-ready assets, $7,500 per eligible Level 2 charging
port. Customers are also eligible for an up to $10,000 reduction in utility-
side make-ready upgrades to support the EVSE.  

  

**The DC Fast Charging Subprogram** offers an on-bill credit of up to $100,000
for customer-side make-ready work, up to $25,000 per DCFC port installation.
If there are customer costs to upgrading utility-side infrastructure to
support this work, customers are eligible for a reduction of up to $50,000 in
that cost. Customers may be eligible for demand charge rebates as well.  

 
 