# EV Tourism Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-06-01 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-06-01 17:33:45 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government 
 ***start date*** : 2023-04-24 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : NJ Board of Public Utilities 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : $5,000 for Level 2 Chargers  $50,000 for DC Fast Charging Stations

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : 100% of cost for charging stations. Up to 6 Level 2 Stations and 2 DCFC
Stations per site.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Direct Current Fast Charging Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Local Government, Commercial, Local Government 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 5000.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Level-2 Electric Vehicle Service Equipment 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Local Government, Commercial, Local Government 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 50000.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (“NJBPU”) authorized the Electric
Vehicle Tourism Program (“EV Tourism Program”) on September 14, 2021. The EV
Tourism Program is offering incentives to promote electric vehicle (“EV”)
adoption and tourism through investment in EV chargers at key New Jersey
tourism sites, landmarks, and other areas of interest (“Tourism Areas”) that
highlight the best that New Jersey has to offer. The primary goal of the grant
is to assist local businesses and municipalities in Tourism Areas by
supporting the build-out of EV chargers. This build-out moves New Jersey
closer to the goals for public and overnight lodging charging locations as
established by the EV Act and will reduce range anxiety for residents and
tourists in New Jersey. This initiative seeks to establish a series of EV
chargers in corridor and community locations. Applicants for the EV Tourism
Program (“Applicants”) that intend to own and operate EV chargers on their
property in Tourism Areas will be able to apply for a grant from the EV
Tourism Program.

  

The application will open on April 24, 2023 and close at 5:00 p.m. Eastern
Time on May 22, 2023.

  

The EV Tourism Program will provide grants to eligible Applicants accepted for
participation as follows:  
  
• An incentive of up to $5,000 for an eligible Level Two Charger, up to the
cost of the charger.  
• An incentive of up to $50,000 for a Direct Current Fast Charger (“DCFC”), up
to the cost of the charger.  
• Each location is limited to six (6) Level Two EV Chargers and two (2) DCFCs
per site.  
• Grants will be provided as reimbursements.  
  

 
 