# Commonwealth of Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy & Environmental Affairs DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES  

# CLEAN PEAK ENERGY PORTFOLIO STANDARD  

CLEAN PEAK DISTRIBUTION CIRCUIT MULTIPLIER GUIDELINE  

for Clean Peak Energy Portfolio Standard Participants  

Date of Publication – December 5, 2023  

Pursuant to the Clean Peak Energy Standard Regulations at 225 CMR 21.00  

Effective Date: December 5, 2023  

This Guideline clarifies the method by which the Department of Energy Resources (“Department”) determines Distribution Circuit Multiplier (“DCM”) values and eligibility.  

# 1. Eligibility  

All Clean Peak Resources shall be eligible for the DCM, including:  

Demand Response (“DR”) • Renewable Portfolio Standard Class I/II (“RPS”) Behind the meter (“BTM”) storage Standalone storage  

A Clean Peak Resource which has submitted a Clean Peak Energy Standard (“CPS”) Statement of Qualification Application (“SQA”) as of the effective date of this guideline, shall not be eligible for the DCM.  

The amount of capacity eligible for the DCM per circuit shall be 5 MW for a circuit of $15\mathrm{kV}$ class or larger, and 2 MW for a circuit smaller than $15\mathrm{kV}$ class. The total capacity eligible per circuit may include multiple projects, so long as the total Clean Peak Resource capacity qualifying for the DCM on any given circuit does not exceed the available capacity. There shall be no capacity limitations for DCM eligibility for Demand Response Clean Peak Resources.  

Applicants may request an increase to the $5\mathrm{MW}$ capacity cap for a circuit of $15\mathrm{kV}$ class or larger, and 2 MW capacity cap for a circuit smaller than $15\mathrm{kV}$ class for Good Cause. The Department shall review these requests on a case-by-case basis.  

# 2. Distribution Circuit Selection  

# a.   Data Source  

The Department has worked closely with the Electric Distribution Companies (“EDCs”) in order to identify circuits which shall be eligible for the DCM. The Department will utilize the EDC’s service quality annual reports (“SQAR”) which the EDCs are required to file annually in compliance with D.T.E. 04-116 to identify eligible circuits and capacity caps. The SQARs are filed with the Department of Public Utilities (“DPU”) every year on March 1st. The Department will publish the DCM Eligible Circuits List to its website no later than April $15^{\mathrm{th}}$ of every year.  

# b.  Methodology  

The Department will rank circuits in each EDC’s territory using the three year average of the Peak to Normal Percent Rating for each circuit. Beginning with a Peak to Normal Percentage Rating average of $85\%$ , the ten percent of circuits with the highest Peak to Normal Percent Rating in each EDC’s territory will be selected as eligible for the DCM. Prior to selecting the ten percent of eligible circuits, The Department will exclude any circuits participating in a Provisional System Planning Program, or Capital Investment Project (“CIP”), as established by DPU 20-75-B. If a circuit is missing information necessary to complete the DCM selection methodology, it shall be excluded from the list prior to identifying the $10\%$ of eligible circuits. The Department may exclude circuits in each EDC’s territory at its discretion.  

# 3. Distribution Circuit Multiplier Values  

Beginning with the Clean Peak Resource’s effective date, all Clean Peak Resources eligible for the DCM shall be assigned a DCM multiplier of 2 for years 1 through 10. The multiplier will be applied to the Clean Peak Resource’s CPEC production in accordance with multiplier methodology as identified on the Department’s webpage.  

# 4. Applying for the Distribution Circuit Multiplier  

Clean Peak Resources will be able to reserve capacity on specific circuits for DCM eligibility. Clean Peak Resources shall submit an application, found on the Department’s website, indicating the circuit for which the application is for as well as providing preliminary Clean Peak Resource information, including but not limited to:  

Clean Peak Resource type (DR, Qualified Energy Storage System (“QESS”), etc.), address, capacity;   
• Clean Peak Resource owner and contact information;   
• An executed Interconnection Service Agreement (“ISA”); Right to construct documentation; and Non-ministerial permits.  

Clean Peak Resources do not need to have submitted a CPS SQA in order to reserve DCM capacity. However, applicants must submit a final CPS Statement of Qualification Application no later than 18 months after their DCM reservation is approved or their DCM reservation shall be revoked. The Department shall maintain a list on its website of active DCM reservations, including each circuit and the active reserved capacity. The Department shall maintain a waitlist for capacity for each individual circuit, as necessary.  

DCM reservations will begin to be accepted by the Department upon the Effective Date of this Guideline. All DCM reservations received within the first ten business days of the application being available will be sequenced by ISA date to determine the allocation of DCM reservations.  

Following this sequencing, DCM reservations will be approved on a first come, first served basis.  

If a circuit had previously been included on the Department’s DCM Eligible Circuits List, but is no longer identified as an eligible circuit for the current year, all DCM reservations will be honored until the end of the Clean Peak Resource’s reservation period. Wait list reservations will not be honored.  

Applicants may request an extension to their DCM reservation for Good Cause. The Department shall review these requests on a case-by-case basis.  