# City of New Orleans - Renewable and Clean Portfolio Standard 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-07-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-04 17:17:02 
 ***state** : Louisiana 
 **implementing sector***: Local 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Renewables Portfolio Standard 
 ***sector*** : Investor-Owned Utility, Retail Supplier 
 ***start date*** : 2020-04-15 04:00:00 
 ***Standard*** : 100% by 2040; 0% unbundled RECs by 2050

 
 ***Compliance Multipliers*** : Varies by tier and year

 
 ***REC Lifetime*** : 2 years

 
 ***Credit Trading/Tracking System*** : Yes (M-RETS or equivalent tracking system)

 
 ***Alternative Compliance Payment*** : $8.45/MWh (2023 - 2025)

 
 ## Summary : 
 On April 15, 2020, the New Orleans City Council adopted a Renewable and Clean
Portfolio Standard (RCPS) via [Resolution
R-20-104](https://council.nola.gov/council/media/Assets/Committees/Utility/R-20-104-UD-19-01-As-
Corrected-Renewable-Portfolio-Standards.pdf), with the goal to eliminate
carbon emissions in 2050 and reach net-zero emissions in 2040. Entergy New
Orleans must follow the standard.

**Eligible Technologies and Resources**

RCPS eligibility is broken down into three tiers: Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3
resources.

Tier 1 resources are any renewable energy resources (solar thermal, PV, wind,
geothermal, fuel cell using renewable, hydroelectric, ocean wave, ocean
thermal, tidal current, any additions/enchantments to such facilities),
certain energy storage resources (batteries, flow batteries, fuel cells,
pumped storage hydropower, flywheels, and pressurized gas storage systems),
zero carbon emissions resources (nuclear, and any other resource that
generated electric producing no emissions but does not qualify as a renewable
energy resource under the RCPS; this does not include carbon capture utilize
and storage (CCUS) on a fossil fuel resource), a distributed energy resource
(solar PV, wind, combined heat and power (CHP), demand response, electric
vehicles, microgrids, and energy efficiency), directly connected to the
utility’s transmission or distribution system. They include the cumulative MWh
savings of demand-side management (DSM) programs installed after January 1,
2021.

Tier 2 resources are any renewable energy resource or zero carbon emissions
resources not eligible for Tier 1, but that are in MISO or that are
deliverable into the MISO region.

Tier 3 resources are any qualified measures or EV charging infrastructure
directly connected to the utility’s transmission or distribution system. A
certified calculation of net carbon emission reduction must be provided to the
Council by the utility regarding Tier 3 resources. The utility must propose
the annual amount of Clean Energy Credits in MWh associated with the proposed
resource for the Council to consider and approve.

**Credits**

The RSPS allows for both Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and Clean Energy
Credits (CECs), which are multiplied by the applicable tier multiplier
(explained below) and combined to equal RCPS Compliance Credits. Energy
storage resources may also receive credits, as explained below.

_Renewable Energy Credits (RECs)_

RECs are tracked through the Midwest Renewable Energy Tracking System (M-RETS)
and result from one MWh of electric energy generated from a renewable energy
source. For compliance purposes, credits must have been generated in the
Midwestern Independent Systems Operator (MISO), the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas (ERCOT), or an applicable energy resource that is being
delivered to MISO or has been delivered to MISO previously. RECs must be
Green-e certified and tracked with M-RETS or an equivalent of such a tracking
system and must be tried against the compliance requirements in the applicable
compliance year in which they are used. The utility may use RECs produced and
Green-e certified in one compliance year for compliance in either of the two
subsequent compliance years.

_Clean Energy Credits (CECs)_

CECs result from each MWh of electricity produced by a zero-carbon emissions
resource; each MWh reduction in consumption from DSM installed starting in
2021; or each MWh associated with a Tier 3 resource. CECs associated with Tier
3 resources can be applied as RCPS Compliance Credits until 2040.

_Energy Storage Resource Credits_

Energy storage resources may be eligible for credits depending on the manner
used. The Council must approve any storage resource applicability before its
inclusion in the utility’s RCPS compliance. If the utility wants to utilize a
storage resource for compliance, it must prove the project and explain how the
project serves the RCPS and what kind of compliance credit the project should
earn. Energy storage includes batteries, flow batteries, fuel cells, or
machine storage resources like pumped hydro, flywheel, and pressure gas
storage systems.

**Compliance Multipliers**

The RCPS contains a tier multiplier for RECs or CECs depending on the year.
For the years 2021 through 2040, RECs or CECs from Tier 1 are credited at a
multiplier of 1.25; Tier 2 at a multiplier of 1.0; and Tier 3 at a multiplier
of 1.0. After 2040, the tier multiplier is 1.0 as default for all tiers,
unless the utility can provide support for a different multiplier for a
specific measure to be evaluated and approved by the Council. If a resource is
eligible for more than one tier, it will receive the highest tier multiplier
for which it is eligible as resources are only allowed to receive credits from
one tier.

The Council must evaluate the continued use of a tier multiplier and
periodically review the amount. Both RECs and CECs are multiplied by the
applicable tier multiplier and then combined to equal RCPS Compliance Credits.

**Alternative Compliance Payments**

In years where Entergy New Orleans fails to comply with the RCPS, it must pay
an alternative compliance payment (ACP) into the city's Clean NOLA Fund. The
Fund serves the purpose of fostering emission reduction in Orleans Parish
using prioritized projects designed to reduce emissions from existing sources.

The ACP is denied by the Council in its resolution approving Entergy New
Orleans RCPS Compliance Plan every three years. The ACP rate is applied for
three years and is based on the highest market value of RECs in MISO over the
previous three years (multiplied by a 1.15 multiplier). For the years 2023
through 2025, the ACP is at 8.45/MWh. When combined with the RCPS compliance
cost incurred in a calendar year, the rate cannot exceed the Customer
Protection Cap of 1% of total utility retail sales revenues for a year. The
Customer Protection Cap is a mechanism to provide customers protection from
unfeasible rate increases.

**Standard**

The utility must meet a specific percentage of retail compliance load (RCPS
compliance credits divided by retail compliance load in MWh), alongside an
allowable compliance percentage that can be fulfilled through purchasing
unbundled RECs. The retail compliance load begins at 64% in 2022, increasing
by 2% every compliance year until reaching 100% in 2040. The allowable
compliance percentage through purchased unbundled RECs begins at 25% in 2022
and will decrease by 1% starting in 2026 until reaching 0% in 2050. The chart
below illustrates the annual compliance percentages from 2022 to 2050:

**Compliance Year** | **Retail Compliance Load** | **Allowable Unbundled REC Purchases**  
---|---|---  
2022 | 64% | 25%  
2023 | 66% | 25%  
2024 | 68% | 25%  
2025 | 70% | 25%  
2026 | 72% | 24%  
2027 | 74% | 23%  
2028 | 76% | 22%  
2029 | 78% | 21%  
2030 | 80% | 20%  
2031 | 82% | 19%  
2032 | 84% | 18%  
2033 | 86% | 17%  
2034 | 88% | 16%  
2035 | 90% | 15%  
2036 | 92% | 14%  
2037 | 94% | 13%  
2038 | 96% | 12%  
2039 | 98% | 11%  
2040 | 100% | 10%  
2041 | 100% | 9%  
2042 | 100% | 8%  
2043 | 100% | 7%  
2044 | 100% | 6%  
2045 | 100% | 5%  
2046 | 100% | 4%  
2047 | 100% | 3%  
2048 | 100% | 2%  
2049 | 100% | 1%  
2050 | 100% | 0%  
|  |   
  
**Compliance Reporting**

Entergy New Orleans must submit a three-year prospective RCPS Compliance Plan
after submitting its final IRP every three years. RCPS Compliance Plans are
filed in [Docket No. UD-19-01](https://council.nola.gov/committees/utility-
cable-telecommunications-and-technology/dockets/establishing-a-docket-and-
opening-a-rulemaking-pro/), and a Compliance Demonstration Report must be
filed by May 1 every calendar year starting in 2022 to track progress.

 
 