# Maine Department of Environmental Protection  

Home $\rightarrow$ Air Quality $\rightarrow$ Programs $\rightarrow$ Compliance $\rightarrow$ Appliance Efficiency Standards  

# Appliance Efficiency Standards  

Appliance efficiency standards set essential requirements for residential and commercial products to help maintain the performance and quality of the product while reducing its energy and water consumption. These standards help ensure poor quality, inefficient, and wasteful products do not enter the supply chain, and protect consumers from purchasing appliances that would drive up their utility costs.  

Maine’s Appliance Efficiency Standards, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 180 (https://www.maine.gov/sos/cec/rules/06/096/096c180.docx) , (Chapter 180) became effective November 3, 2022, to help Maine meet the greenhouse gas reduction goals (https://www.maine.gov/dep/commissioners-office/kpi/details.html?id=606898) established in 38 M.R.S. § 576-A (http://www.mainelegislature.org/legis/statutes/38/title38sec576-A.html) , and is intended to operate in conjunction with the efforts of other states.  

# Covered Products  

General Service Lamps Computers and Computer Monitors Commercial Hot Food Holding Cabinets   
Plumbing Fittings   
Plumbing Fixtures   
Portable Electric Spas Spray Sprinkler Bodies Water Dispensers  

# Current Standards  

Maine has adopted standards for the following product categories. Details of these standards including definitions, efficiency requirements, and test procedure information can be found in Chapter 180. The rule applies to products manufactured after January 1, 2023, and does not include the sale of used products.  

The table below describes the adopted standard and test procedures.  

Appliance Efficiency Standards   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Product Category</td><td>Definition</td><td>Standards</td></tr><tr><td>General Service Lamps</td><td>Medium-base incandescent light bulbs that are: 1. reflector lamps that are ER30, BR30, BR40 or ER40 lamps rated at 50 watts or less; 2. reflector lamps that are BR30, BR40 or ER40 lamps rated at 65 watts; 3. reflector lamps that are R20 lamps rated at 45 watts or less; 4. B, BA, CA, F and G shape lamps as defined in ANSI standard C79.1-2002 with a lumen output greater than or equal to 200 and rated at 40 watts or less; 5. A and C shape lamps as defined in ANSI standard C79.1-2002 with a lumen output greater than or equal to 200 and less than 310; 6. shatter-resistant lamps; or</td><td>General service lamps shall meet or exceed a lamp efficiency of 45 lumens per watt.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>7. 3-way lamps.</td><td>Water Dispensers shall have</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Water Dispensers</td><td>A freestanding device that consumes energy to cool and/orheat potable water.</td><td>productspecificationsfor water coolers, effective February 1,2014: 1. 0.16 kilowatt-hours per day for cold-only units and cook-and-cold units; 2. 0.87 kilowatt-hours per day for storage type hot- and-cold units; and 3. 0.18 kilowatt-hours per day for on demand hot- and-coldunits.</td></tr><tr><td>Plumbing Fittings</td><td>Showerheads, lavatory faucets, kitchen faucets, public lavatoryfaucets,meteringfaucets,kitchen replacement aerators,and lavatoryreplacement aerators.</td><td>Plumbing fittings that are showerheads, lavatory faucets, kitchen faucets, public lavatory faucets, metering faucets, kitchen replacement aerators, and lavatory replacement aerators shall meetthestandardssetforthin 20 CCR S1605.3 as they were in effectonDecember9,2021.</td></tr><tr><td>Plumbing Fixtures</td><td>Waterclosetsandurinals,other thanthosedesigned and marketed exclusively for use at prisons or mental health facilities</td><td>Wall-mounted urinals, except for trough-type urinals, shall have a maximum flush volume of 0.5 gallons per flush. Floor-mounted urinals,except for trough-type urinals, shall have a maximum flush volume of 0.5 gallons per flush. Water closets,exceptfordual- flush tank-type water closets, shall have amaximum flush volume of 1.28 gallons per flush. Dual-flushtank-typewater closetsshallhave amaximum dual-flush effective flush volume of 1.28 gallons per flush.</td></tr><tr><td>Spray</td><td>drive the rotation of the nozzle or orifice during</td><td>Spray sprinkler bodies shall include an integral pressure regulator and shall meet the</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Electric Spas</td><td>time of sale or sold separately for subsequent attachment.</td><td>for Portable Electric Spa Energy Efficiency" (ANSI/APSP/ICC 14-2019), effective November 19, 2019.</td></tr><tr><td>Computer Monitors</td><td>An analog or digital device of diagonal screen size greater than or equal to 17 inches and less than or equal to 61 inches, that has a pixel density of greater primarily for the display of computer-generated signals for viewing by one person in a desk-based environment. A computer monitor is composed of a display screen and associated electronics. primary operation without AC mains or external DC power, (e.g., electronic readers, mobile phones, tablets, battery-powered digital picture frames); or a television or a signage display.</td><td>Computer monitors shall meet the requirements of CCR Title 20, Section 1605.3(v), as in effect on December 9,2021. Compliance with those requirements shall be as measured in accordance with test methods prescribed in $1604(v) of those regulations.</td></tr><tr><td>Computers</td><td>A device that performs logical operations and processes data. A computer includes both stationary portable all-in-one, a notebook computer, a mobile small-scale server, a thin client, and a workstation. Although a computer is capable of using input devices and displays, such devices are not required to be included with the computer when the computer is shipped. A computer is composed of, at a minimum: 1. A central processing unit (CPU) to perform operations or, if no CPU is present, then the device must function as a client gateway to a server and the server acts as a computational CPU; 2. Ability to support user input devices such as a keyboard, mouse, or touchpad; and 3. An integrated display screen or the ability to support an external display screen to output information. The term “computer” does not include a tablet, a game console, a television, a small computer device, a server other than a small-scale server, or an industrial computer.</td><td>Computers shall meet the requirements of CCR Title 20, Section1605.3(v),asineffect on December 9,2021. Compliance with those requirements shall be as measured in accordance with test methods prescribed in $1604(v) of those regulations.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>A heated, fully enclosed compartment with one or</td><td>Commercial hot food holding cabinetsshallmeet the qualification criteria of the</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Commercial HotFood Holding Cabinets</td><td>more solid or transparent doors designed to maintain the temperature of hot food that has been cooked using a separate appliance. This does not include heated glassmerchandizing cabinets,drawer warmers, or cook-and-hold appliances.</td><td>ENERGYSTARProgram Requirements Product SpecificationforCommercial HotFoodHoldingCabinets, Version2.0,effectiveOctober 1,2011.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Contact  

For more information, contact Claire Briggs at claire.briggs@maine.gov (mailto:claire.briggs@maine.gov) or (207) 355-5307.  

# Credits  

Copyright $\spadesuit$ 2019 All rights reserved.  

# Popular Pages  

Major Projects   
Help ME Recycle   
Beverage Container Redemption   
Air Quality Forecast   
NRPA   
GIS Maps and Data Files   
Jobs @ DEP   
Board of Environmental Protection  

# Connect with Us  

Email Us   
Twitter   
Receive Updates   
RSS Feeds   
Meeting Calendar   
Comment Opportunities   
Office Locations   
Staff Directory  

# Other Links  

Site Policies   
Privacy Policy   
Notice of Nondiscrimination   
Natural Resources Service Center   
Request for Proposals   
Subject Index A-Z   
Training Opportunities   
DEP Sharepoint  

# Contact Information  

17 State House Station   
28 Tyson Drive   
Augusta, Maine 04333-0017   
Tel: 207-287-7688   
Fax: 207-287-7826  