# Clean Peak Energy Standard 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-07-22 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-03 20:50:52 
 ***state** : Massachusetts 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Renewables Portfolio Standard 
 ***sector*** : Investor-Owned Utility, Retail Supplier 
 ***start date*** : 2020-08-07 04:00:00 
 ***Standard*** : 46.5% by 2050

 
 ***Compliance Multipliers*** : Varies

 
 ***REC Lifetime*** : 3 years

 
 ***Credit Trading/Tracking System*** : Yes (NEPOOL GIS/MassCEC PTS/Massachusetts PTS)

 
 ***Alternative Compliance Payment*** : $45/MWh (2020 - 2025)  
$65/MWh (2026 - 2032)  
$45/MWh (2033 and after)

 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: In mid-July 2024, the Department of Energy Resources filed an
emergency rulemaking that made immediate rule changes to the Clean Peak Energy
Standard, including adding a near-term resource multiplier and amending the
minimum standards for 2025 and thereafter. Further rule changes were then made
in mid-October 2024 via a follow-on emergency rulemaking that amended ACP
rates, among other things.**_

On August 9, 2018, An Act to Advance Clean Energy ([H.B.
4857](https://malegislature.gov/Bills/190/H4857)) was signed into law,
requiring the Department of Energy Resources (DOER) to develop the Clean Peak
Energy Standard (CPS). The DOER officially established the first CPS in the
nation in July 2020, directing retail electricity suppliers and distribution
companies to meet a baseline minimum percentage of sales with qualified clean
peak resources (those that dispatch or discharge to the distribution system
during seasonal peak periods or reduce system load). Municipal lighting plants
in Massachusetts are exempt from the standard.

**Qualified Clean Peak Resources**

As part of the CPS, the following are categorized as qualified clean peak
resources: qualified energy storage systems (those that are commercially
operational or provide incremental new capacity at an existing energy storage
system, and primarily store and discharge renewable energy, starting in 2019);
qualified RPS resources (a renewable energy generating source that started
operations before 2019 and collocates a qualified energy storage system, or is
commercially operational starting in 2019); and demand response resources
(those that demonstrate changes to load that are measurable and verifiable,
and are operational starting in 2019, including certain aggregate demand
response resources through Active Demand Response programs, electric vehicle
supply equipment, energy storage systems, electric water heaters, load
curtailment, metering, and building thermal mass and thermal storage systems;
this does not include qualified RPS resources).

Qualified energy storage systems must have a storage duration of at least four
hours and must be collocated on the same or adjacent land parcel as RPS Class
I or Class II renewable generation facilities within the same utility’s
service territory. Energy storage systems certified as a demand response
resource are not allowed to be certified as qualified energy storage and do
not enable eligibility of Class I and Class II RPS resources as part of a
demand response resource.

**Minimum Standard**

The standard began in 2020 at 1.5% and increased by 1.5% until 2023, after
which it decreased to 4% in 2024. The standard increase, as shown in the chart
below, until reaching 34% in 2034. After 2034, the minimum standard will
increase by 1.5% annually until 2050. The DOER may determine a standard
adjustment and must review the standard at least every four years starting in
2024. The following chart shows the standard percentage for each compliance
year:

**_Compliance Year_** | **_Cumulative Minimum Percentage_**  
---|---  
2019 | 0.00%  
2020 | 1.50%  
2021 | 3.00%  
2022 | 4.50%  
2023 | 6.00%  
2024 | 4.00%  
2025 | 5.50%  
2026 | 7.50%  
2027 | 9.00%  
2028 | 13.00%  
2029 | 19.00%  
2030 | 25.00%  
2031 | 29.00%  
2032 | 31.00%  
2033 | 32.50%  
2034 | 34.00%  
2035 | 35.50%  
2036 | 37.00%  
2037 | 38.50%  
2038 | 40.00%  
2039 | 41.50%  
2040 | 43.00%  
2041 | 44.50%  
2042 | 46.00%  
2043 | 47.50%  
2044 | 49.00%  
2045 | 50.50%  
2046 | 52.00%  
2047 | 53.50%  
2048 | 55.00%  
2049 | 56.50%  
2050 | 58.00%  
|  
  
**Multipliers**

The CPS offers several multipliers based on season, resilience, and resources,
among other types. Multipliers are reviewed and may be modified at least every
four years starting in 2024.

__Seasonal:__ modifies certificates produced during a clean peak season,
including Spring (March 1st – May 14th), Summer (May 15th – September 14th),
Fall (September 15th – November 30th), and Winter (December 1st – February
28th, adjusted for leap years). Spring and fall each have a multiplier of 1,
while Summer and Winter have a multiplier of 4.

__Actual Monthly System Peak:__ modifies certificates generated during the
Hour of Actual Monthly System Peak or the highest net demand in a calendar
month in the ISO-New England Control Area, and are given a multiplier of 25.

__Resilience:__ modifies certificates generated by facilities that generate
power during external outage conditions, which are given a multiplier specific
to output during seasonal peak periods determined as follows: 5 PM – 9 PM
(Spring), 4 PM – 8 PM (Summer), 4 PM – 8 PM (Fall), and 4 PM – 9 PM (Winter),
for a multiple of 1.5.

 __Existing Resource:__ modifies certificates generated by an existing
resource, granting them a multiplier of 0.1.

__Contracted Resource:__ modifies certificates generated by contracted
resources, granting them a multiplier of 0.01.

__SMART ES Resource:__ modifies certificates generated by a SMART energy
storage (ES) resource, granting them a multiplier of 0.3.

__Distribution Circuit:__ modifies certificates generated by a resource based
on the “locational value of the unique load profile” and needs of each
circuit, with a max eligible capacity of 1 MW/circuit. Eligible generation
facilities are assigned a multiplier of 2 for years one through 10 of
operation, and a multiplier of 1.5 for years 11 through 15. The multiplier is
applied to the facility’s certificate production in accordance with the
methodology defined on the [DOER website](https://www.mass.gov/doc/cps-cpec-
generation-formula-visualization/download).

 __Near-Term Resource:__ modifies the number of certificates generated by a
qualifying energy storage system interconnected and not co-located with a
qualified RPS or demand response resource. The qualified storage system must
have an operation date before 2027 and have received a statement of
qualification after January 1, 2025. The initial eligibility cap for this
multiplier is 50 MW of cumulative system capacity, which may be increased in
the future by the DOER. The multiplier is 2 for years one through 10 from the
storage system’s effect date on its statement of qualification, and is not
eligible for systems that have also received a Distribution Circuit
multiplier.

**Clean Peak Energy Certificates (CPECs)**

Certificates are received for each MWh of energy or energy reserves at NEPOOL
GIS that are adjusted by multipliers and provided during a seasonal peak
period that represents a compliance mechanism. Clean peak resources must
register at NEPOOL GIS to receive a CPS identification number, and must also
register with the Massachusetts Protection Tracking System (PTS). Non-energy
storage demand response resources must register with the Massachusetts Clean
Energy Center (MassCEC) PTS. Certificates produced in one compliance year may
be used for compliance in either or both of the two subsequent compliance
years.

**Alternative Compliance Payment**

An Alternative Compliance Payment (ACP) can be made to the MassCEC. The ACP
Rate was $45/MWh starting in 2020 and remains at that amount through 2025.
Then starting in 2026 and through 2032, the rate must be $65/MWh. After that,
the rate will be $45/MWh for the remainder of the program. The DOER may
determine a standard adjustment and must review the standard at least every
four years starting in 2024. Updates on the ACP rate for the current
compliance year can be found on the [DOER’s annual compliance information
website page](https://www.mass.gov/service-details/annual-compliance-
information-for-retail-electric-suppliers).

**Compliance Reporting**

Retail electricity suppliers must annually file a compliance filing with the
DOER by July 1, or the next first day of business, of the subsequent
compliance year. The filing must include the certificates allocated,
alternative compliance credits, and electrical energy sales, among other
attributes.

 
 