# Clean Energy Standard 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-07-22 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-03 20:55:19 
 ***state** : Massachusetts 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Renewables Portfolio Standard 
 ***sector*** : Investor-Owned Utility, Retail Supplier 
 ***start date*** : 2017-08-31 04:00:00  implemented in 8/2017 
 ***Standard*** : 80% by 2050

 
 ***Technology Minimum*** : CES-E: 20% (2021-2022); varies based on formula (2023-2050)

 
 ***REC Lifetime*** : 3 years

 
 ***Credit Trading/Tracking System*** : Yes (NEPOOL GIS)

 
 ***Alternative Compliance Payment*** : CES ACP: $35/MWh (2022-2050)  
CES-E ACP: $10/MWh (2022-2050)

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Clean Energy Standard (CES) was created to assist in reaching
Massachusetts’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals adopted pursuant to
the [Climate Protection and Green Economy
Act](https://malegislature.gov/Laws/GeneralLaws/PartI/TitleII/Chapter21N). The
CES requires retail electricity sellers to demonstrate on an annual basis the
use of clean energy for the generation of specific electricity sale
percentages.

**Clean Generation Resources**

The CES allows two types of clean generation resources, those from existing
units and those from new units. Clean existing generation refers to existing
nuclear and hydroelectric generating units that have a capacity of more than
30 MW, started operations before 2011, and are located in Massachusetts (or in
a jurisdiction that has exported at least a net annual amount of 4 million MWh
to Massachusetts in at least two years from 2001 to 2016). For any individual
clean existing generating unit, the output in a given calendar year cannot
exceed 2.5 million MWh. Clean generation units refer to those that have
received a CES statement of qualification from the Department of Energy
Resources (DOER) or a Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) statement of
qualification, with an operation start date after 2010.

Eligible clean generation include RPS Class I resources, such as: solar
photovoltaics (PV); solar thermal electric energy; wind energy; ocean thermal,
wave, or tidal energy; fuel cells utilizing renewable fuels; landfill gas;
energy generated by certain new hydroelectric facilities, or certain
incremental new energy from increased capacity or efficiency improvements at
existing hydroelectric facilities; low-emission advanced biomass power
conversion technologies using fuels such as wood, by-products or waste from
agricultural crops, food or vegetative material, energy crops, algae, biogas,
or liquid biofuels; marine or hydrokinetic energy; and geothermal energy.

**Minimum Standard**

The CES’s minimum standard is the mandated minimum percentage of electrical
energy sales with clean generation attributes and clean existing generation
attributes. Integrated into the minimum standard is a separate minimum
percentage for clean existing generation units (CES-E). In 2021 and 2022 the
percentage requirement for CES-E was 20%, while the requirement for years 2023
to 2050 is determined by dividing 25% by the percentage provided by the DOER
pursuant to the total electrical energy sales to end-use customers (reported
via annual compliance filings) for the year four years before the calendar
year for which the percentage requirement applies, rounded to the nearest
percent. The following chart lists the total minimum standard percentages from
2018 to 2050 (and thereafter):

**_Year_** | **_Minimum Standard_**  
---|---  
2018 | 16%  
2019 | 18%  
2020 | 20%  
2021 | 22%  
2022 | 24%  
2023 | 26%  
2024 | 28%  
2025 | 30%  
2026 | 36%  
2027 | 42%  
2028 | 48%  
2029 | 54%  
2030 | 60%  
2031 | 61%  
2032 | 62%  
2033 | 63%  
2034 | 64%  
2035 | 65%  
2036 | 66%  
2037 | 67%  
2038 | 68%  
2039 | 69%  
2040 | 70%  
2041 | 71%  
2042 | 72%  
2043 | 73%  
2044 | 74%  
2045 | 75%  
2046 | 76%  
2047 | 77%  
2048 | 78%  
2049 | 79%  
2050 (every year thereafter) | 80%  
|  
  
**Clean Energy Generation Attributes**

To emblematize electrical energy output from eligible clean generation units
and clean existing generation units, these categories can use clean and clean
existing generation attributes as compliance, respectively. Clean generation
attributes produced in either or both two prior compliance years can be used.

**Alternative Compliance Payment**

In lieu of providing clean generation attributes, alternative compliance
payments (ACPs) can be made in the form of CES and CES-E alternative
compliance credits. The CES ACP rate in dollars was 0.75 times the rate
calculated annually by the DOER for years 2018 to 2020, 0.50 times the rate
calculated annually by DOER for the year 2021, and $35/MWh for years 2022
through 2050. The CES-E ACP rate in dollars was 0.10 times the rate specified
by DOER for the year 2021 and $10/MWh for the years 2022 through 2050. To find
the ACP rate for the current compliance year go to the [DOER’s annual
compliance information website page](https://www.mass.gov/service-
details/annual-compliance-information-for-retail-electric-suppliers).

**Compliance**

Retail sellers are required to submit annual compliance filings to document
their compliance progress. The annual form must include the following
information: the total electric energy sales to end-use customers; electric
energy sales to end-use customers; the alternative compliance credit;
attributes retained, among others.

 
 