# Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:  

Step 1: Determine Eligibility.  Pre-approval is required if the potential incentive is greater than $\$20,000$ . Contact The Utility for pre-approval. See last page of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 2: Install Equipment.  

Step 3: Complete and Submit Application. A completed application and all required supporting documents must be received by The Utility within 90 days of installation. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application.  

Email the application and supporting documentation to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com  

OR Mail the application and all supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers  

HAS THIS PROJECT BEEN PREAPPROVED?   YES   NO  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">CompanyName</td><td colspan="3">ContactName</td><td colspan="2">DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>InstallationAddress</td><td colspan="2">[City</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td>MailingAddress</td><td colspan="3">City</td><td colspan="2">State</td><td>Zip Code</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Phone</td><td colspan="6">Installation(Completion)Date</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Email Address* By providing your email address, you are granting The Utility permission to send emails regarding this project and/or updates on the incentive program.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Municipal Utility Account Number Building Use-Please Check One office Retail ConvenienceStore Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing School:ElementarySecondary/HighSchoolCollege Healthcare: Clinic Hospital Other/Miscellaneous:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Facility Hours of Operation</td></tr><tr><td>Hours per Day</td><td colspan="3"></td><td>Weeksper Year</td><td colspan="2">HoursperYear(hoursxdaysxweeks)</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="3">Days per Week</td><td></td><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Vendor/ContractorInformation</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name</td><td colspan="3">Contact Name</td><td colspan="3">Phone</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Address</td><td colspan="3">City</td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Email Address*</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">Payment Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendor or Contractor (listed above) )AlternateRecipient If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section:</td></tr><tr><td>Company Name</td><td>ContactName</td><td colspan="2">Phone</td></tr><tr><td>Address</td><td>City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td>-Replacement/Retrofit/New</td><td></td><td></td><td>$60</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="3">Subtotal Section A:</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">B. ECM Fan Motors (Electronically Commutated) for Compressors and Condensers--Replacing Existing or Supplied With New Equipment</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>ECM Condenser or Compressor Fan Motor</td><td></td><td></td><td>$50</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Q-Sync PMS Evaporator Fan Motor in Walk-ln Coolers and Freezers</td><td></td><td></td><td>$60</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>-Replacement/retrofit/new cases Q-SyncPMSEvaporatorFanMotor inReach-ln Cooler or Freezer Cases -Replacement/retrofit/newcases</td><td></td><td></td><td>$30</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section B:</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">C.ENERGY STAR Commercial Ice Machines</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td colspan="2">Make/Model</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Less than 500 Ibs. per day</td><td></td><td>Quantity</td><td>$50</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>500—1000 Ibs. per day</td><td></td><td></td><td>$150</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Greater than 1000 Ibs. per day</td><td></td><td></td><td>$300</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section C:</td><td>$ $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">D. Commercial Fryers</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>ENERGY STAR? Electric Fryer ElectricPressureFryer(ENERGYSTAR?Not</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1150</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Required) Note:Must haveshorteningcapacity≥25Ibs. Ventless Electric Fryer (ENERGY STAR? Not Required)</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1000</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Power supply must be 208 volts or greater, and have a minimum capacity of 14 Ibs. or 1.75 gals.</td><td></td><td></td><td>$600 Subtotal Section D:</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">E.ENERGYSTARCommercial Griddles-ElectricOnly</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Electric Griddle</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1150</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section E: $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5">Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">F. ENERGY STAR Commercial Steam Cookers-Electric Only</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Three-Pan Electric Steam Cooker</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1200</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Four-Pan Electric Steam Cooker</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1350</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Five-Pan Electric Steam Cooker</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1550</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Six-PanElectricSteam Cooker</td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section F:</td><td>$1700</td><td>$ $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">G. ENERGY STAR Commercial Hot Food Holding Cabinets-Electric Only</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Half-Size Holding Cabinet</td><td></td><td></td><td>$200</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Three-Quarter-Size Holding Cabinet</td><td></td><td></td><td>$300</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Full-Size Holding Cabinet</td><td></td><td></td><td>$400</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section G:</td><td></td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">H. ENERGY STAR Commercial Convection Ovens-Electric Only</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Electric Convection Oven - Half Size</td><td></td><td></td><td>$450</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Electric Convection Oven < 5 Pan Capacity ElectricConvection Oven≥ 5 PanCapacity</td><td></td><td></td><td>$700 $700</td><td>$ $</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Subtotal Section H:</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5">1. ENERGY STAR Commercial Combination Oven/Steamers-Electric Only</td></tr><tr><td>EfficiencyRequirements</td><td>Make/Model</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>TotalIncentive</td></tr><tr><td>Two-thirdsSize(Mini)3-5Pan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$2000</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Full-Size 3-4Pan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$2000</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Full-Size5-40Pan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$2000 Subtotal Section I:</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4"></td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>DescriptionandSize</td><td>Make/Model/ExhaustFanHP(Size)</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>TotalIncentive</td></tr><tr><td>ControlPackage Must include hood temperature or hood temperature plus optical sensorscontrollingvariablespeeddriveexhaust andvariable</td><td></td><td></td><td>$200 per hood exhaustfan</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>speed drive makeup air unit.</td><td></td><td>SubtotalSectionJ:</td><td>hp</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">K. ENERGY STAR Commercial Dishwashers</td></tr><tr><td>Description and Size</td><td>Make/Model</td><td></td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">HighTemp Commercial Dishwashers</td></tr><tr><td>Under Counter Type—-Electric Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$200</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Under Counter Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$125</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>N/A</td><td>$O</td><td></td><td>$O</td></tr><tr><td>Door Type—-Electric Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$600 $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Door Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$300</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Door Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Natural Gas Booster</td><td></td><td>N/A</td><td></td><td>$O</td><td>$O</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$500</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$300</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Single Tank Conveyor Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Natural Gas Booster</td><td></td><td>N/A</td><td>$0</td><td></td><td>$O</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$1500</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Multi-Tank Conveyor Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$600</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Multi-Tank Conveyor Type—Natural Gas Water Heater and Natural Gas Boost- er</td><td></td><td>N/A</td><td>$O</td><td></td><td>$0</td></tr><tr><td>Pot, Pan and Utensil Unit——Electric Water Heater and Electric Booster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$175</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Pot,Pan and Utensil Unit—Natural GasWater Heaterand ElectricBooster</td><td></td><td></td><td>$100</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Pot,Pan and Utensil Unit-Natural GasWater Heater andNatural GasBooster</td><td></td><td>N/A</td><td>$O</td><td>$O</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Low Temp Commercial Dishwashers</td></tr><tr><td>Under Counter Type— Electric Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$150 $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Under Counter Type— Natural Gas Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$O</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Door Type—Electric Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$900</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Door Type—Natural Gas Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$o</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Single Tank Conveyor Type——Electric Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$800</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Single Tank Conveyor Type-—Natural Gas Water</td><td></td><td></td><td>$O</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Multi-Tank Conveyor Type—Electric Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$1000</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Multi-Tank Conveyor Type—Natural Gas Water Heater</td><td></td><td></td><td>$O</td><td>$</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Note: The kitchen must operate at full capacity for a minimum of two meals per day in a restaurant, commercial food service, or institutional food service</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">setting in order to qualify. Subtotal Section K:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Food Service Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Summary of Incentives</td></tr><tr><td>Section A:ECMFanMotorsforWalk-lnFreezersand Coolers $</td></tr><tr><td>Section B: ECM Fan Motors for Compressors and Condensers $</td></tr><tr><td>Section C: Commercial Ice Machines $</td></tr><tr><td>Section D: Commercial Fryers $</td></tr><tr><td>Section E:ENERGY STAR? Commercial Griddles $</td></tr><tr><td>Section F: ENERGY STAR? Commercial Steam Cookers $</td></tr><tr><td>Section G: ENERGY STAR? Hot Food Holding Cabinets $</td></tr><tr><td>Section H: ENERGY STAR? Convection Ovens $</td></tr><tr><td>Section I:ENERGY STAR? Combination Oven/Steamers $</td></tr><tr><td>Section J: Kitchen Hood Controls $</td></tr><tr><td>Section K:ENERGY STAR? Commercial Dishwashers $</td></tr><tr><td>Total Incentive: $</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Certifications and Signature  

I hereby certify that:  

1. The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;   
2. All installation is complete and the unit(s) is operational prior to submitting application;   
3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;   
4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the   
last page of this application form.  

The customer agrees to verification of equipment installation which may include a site inspection by a program or utility representative. The customer understands that it is not allowed to receive more than one incentive from this program on any piece of equipment. The customer agrees to indemnify, defend, hold harmless and release The Utility from any claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from or relating to the removal, disposal, installation or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, including any incidental, special or consequential damages.  

Please sign and complete all information below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">Customer Signature</td><td colspan="2">Print Name</td></tr><tr><td>Title</td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

# Attach a Copy of the Equipment Invoice  

Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

# Specification sheets  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td>Date Received:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ONO</td><td>Date Pre-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ONO</td><td>Date Post-Inspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Incentive Approved:</td><td>Yes ONO</td><td>Amount $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions for Bright Energy Solutions Business Incentives  

# ELIGIBILITY:  

Bright Energy Solutions incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, call your local utility listed on the cover page of this application.   
Commercial, industrial, and governmental customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in this Bright Energy Solutions® incentive program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed under a commercial or industrial rate class by The Utility. Excludes equipment for residential spaces such as apartments.   
Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs.  

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  

1. Incentive Offer:  Projects, including all required installation, must be completed by December 31 of the year indicated on this application form. A signed application and itemized invoices for materials and labor must be submitted to The Utility within 90 calendar days of project completion. Please keep a copy for your records.   
2. Proof of Purchase:  This application must have complete information and be submitted with invoices itemizing the new equipment purchased and labor costs. Invoices must indicate date of purchase, make, model and total project cost. OEM specification sheets or DLC documents must also be provided where applicable and available.  

3. Compliance:  

a) All projects must comply with federal, state, and local code, licensing, and permit requirements. b) All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for incentives. Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of. c) Equipment must meet specification requirements and be purchased, installed and operating prior to submitting an incentive application. d) Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. e) All projects for which more than $\$20,000$ in incentive payments is sought must be approved by The Utility in writing prior to the commencement of the project. Receipt of pre-approval does not guarantee incentive payments will be made. All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer. 4. Payment:  Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are made within 4-8 weeks. Incomplete applications will delay payments. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation for violations of program rules and procedures.   
5. Inspection:  The Utility may conduct an inspection of any installed projects. All projects exceeding $\$10,000$ of incentives will be inspected prior to incentive payment.   
6. Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities.   
7. Program Discretion: This program is subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program.   
8. Logo Use:  Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission.  

9. Disclaimers:  The Utility:  

a) does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs;   
b) will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives;   
c) does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work;   
d) is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project;   
e) is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken under the programs described in this application;   
f) does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program.  

# INCENTIVE LIMIT:  

Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive an energy efficiency incentive of up to $\$100,000$ per customer, per calendar year. Payments for larger incentives may be allowed at the discretion of The Utility.   
• Total incentive will not exceed 75 percent of the project cost, including installation. If self-installed, incentives can be up to the equipment purchase price, but shall not exceed the Bright Energy Solutions incentives set by Missouri River Energy Services.  