# Indoor Lighting New Construction for Business Customers Application 2025  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:  

Step 1: Determine Eligibility:  Pre-approval is required if the potential incentive is greater than \$20,000. Contact The Utility for pre-approval. See last pages of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 2: Install Equipment. See last pages of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 3: Complete and Submit Application. A completed application and all required supporting documents must be received by The Utility within 90 days of installation. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application.  

Email the application and supporting documentation to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com  

OR  

Mail the application and all supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# Indoor Lighting New Construction for Business Customers Application 2025  

HAS THIS PROJECT BEEN PREAPPROVED?   YES  NO  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">Customer Information (PleasePrint)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name</td><td colspan="2">ContactName</td><td colspan="2">DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>InstallationAddress</td><td colspan="3">City City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">MailingAddress</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">PhoneNumber</td><td colspan="2">nstallation CompletionDate</td><td colspan="2">Is the space air conditioned? YesNo</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Email Address*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Municipal Utility Account Number</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Building Use-Please CheckOne office Retail ConvenienceStore Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing Healthcare: Clinic Hospital</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Other/Miscellaneous:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">WeeksperYear</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>Hours per Day</td><td colspan="2">Facility Hours of Operation Days per Week</td><td colspan="3">Hours per Year(hours x days x weeks)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Vendor/Contractor Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name Address</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td>Phone</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">City Email Address*</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">*By providing your email address, you are granting The Utility permission to send emails regarding this project and/or updates on the incentive program.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Payment Information Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendor or Contractor (listed above)Alternate Recipient</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Company Name Contact Name</td><td colspan="3">Phone State Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Address City</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# General Equipment Eligibility  

 If any equipment listed in this program is required by code, the offer of an incentive for such equipment is null and void.  

All fixtures shall be installed indoors.  All installations must be permanent. All fixtures, lamps, and ballasts must be UL or ETL listed to U.S. safety standards for operation as installed and must meet all applicable codes and regulations. All equipment must be new and installed in facilities within the service territory of The Utility.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Tecnnoiogles Installed Equipment</td><td colspan="2">Specifications</td><td>Incentive per Unit </td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>LED Lamp 2 Pin or 4 Pin Base</td><td colspan="2">LED lamp must be listed on the DesignLights Consortium (DLC) Qualified Product List door installations only.</td><td>$5.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LEDENERGYSTAR? Downlight Fixture or Retrofit Kit</td><td colspan="2">LED downlight fixture must be ENERGY STAR LED lighting qualified. A downlight fix- ture is a direct-lighting unit that directs the light downward and can be recessed or sur- face mounted. Indoor installations only.</td><td>$4.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4' LED T8 or T5HO Linear Lamp DLC QUALIFIED</td><td colspan="2">LED lamp must be listed on the DesignLights Consortium (DLC) Qualified Product List Replacement Lamps. See www.DesignLights.org. Indoor installations only.</td><td>$4.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">LED Troffer, Strip and Wraparound DLC QUALIFIED</td><td>Less than 3000 Lumens</td><td>DesignLights Consortium Qualified troffer, linear ambient (strip) and wraparound LED fixtures. See www.DesignLights.org for qualified</td><td>$5.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3000-5799 Lumens</td><td>product list.</td><td>$6.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>5800 Lumens or greater</td><td>If field adjustable product is used indicate quantity of each seting installed High Medium Low</td><td>$9.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">LED Troffer, Strip and Wraparound DLCPREMIUM QUALIFIED</td><td>Less than 3000 Lumens</td><td>DesignLights Consortium Premium Qualified troffer, linear ambient (strip) and wraparound LED fixtures. See www.DesignLights.org for</td><td>$6.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3000-5799 Lumens</td><td>qualified product list. If field adjustable product is used indicate quantity of each setting</td><td>$9.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>5800 Lumens or greater</td><td>installed High Medium Low</td><td>$14.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Occupancy Sensor Con- trolling LED Refrigerated Case Lighting</td><td colspan="2">Sensors in new refrigerated cases or installed in existing cases. LED must serve as the only source of light for the case. Incentive is per door. Sensor may control more than one door.</td><td>$5.00 Per Door</td><td>Doors</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LED High-Bay or Low-Bay</td><td colspan="2">See Section B of this form on page 4.</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other LED</td><td colspan="2">Indoor DesignLights or ENERGY STAR qualified fixtures not noted here may be eligible for an incentive under the Custom Incentive Program. Contact the local municipal utility</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">for details.</td><td>Section A Subtotal</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Indoor Lighting New Construction for Business Customers Application 2025  

B. LED High or Low-Bay – DLC Listed High-Bay or Low-Bay LED Luminaires Only  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Installed Equip- ment</td><td colspan="2">Specifications</td><td>Incentive per Unit</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="6">LED High-Bay Or Low-Bay DLC Qualified</td><td>≤75 W</td><td rowspan="6">DLC Listed High-Bay or Low-Bay LED Luminaires Only. See www.DesignLights.org for DLC Qualified Product List.</td><td>$15.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤110 W</td><td>$25.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤160 W</td><td>$30.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤275 W</td><td>$45.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤400 W</td><td>$80.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>>400 W</td><td>$105.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="6">LED High-Bay Or Low-Bay DLCPREMIUM Qualified</td><td>≤75 W</td><td rowspan="6">DLC Listed PREMIUM High-Bay or Low-Bay LED Luminaires Only. See www.DesignLights.org for DLC Qualified Product List.</td><td>$20.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤110 W</td><td>$30.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤160 W</td><td>$35.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤275 W</td><td>$50.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≤400 W</td><td>$85.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>>400 W</td><td>$115.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

C. LED Indoor Grow Lighting Fixtures (See www.DesignLights.org for DLC Qualified Product List)   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Installed Equipment</td><td colspan="2">Specifications</td><td>Incentive per Unit</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incentive</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LED Indoor Horticulture Grow Lighting in Air Conditioned Space</td><td><400 watts</td><td rowspan="6">Product List.</td><td>$135.00</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LED Indoor Horticulture Grow Lighting in Air Conditioned Space</td><td>400 watts to <700 watts</td><td>$200.00 DLC Listed Horticulture LED Luminaires Only. See www.DesignLights.org for DLC Qualified</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LEDIndoor Horticulture Grow Lighting in non-Air Conditioned space</td><td><400 watts</td><td>$110.00</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LED Indoor Horticulture Grow Lighting in non- Air</td><td>400 watts to <700 watts</td><td>$160.00</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Conditioned space</td><td colspan="3">Section C Subtotal</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Indoor Lighting New Construction for Business Customers Application  

# D. Interior Whole Building Lighting Power Density using Comcheck® or similar reporting  

MPORTANT: This section is for whole building submission and cannot be paired with itemized prescriptive rebates offered elsewhere in this application.  

 Exterior lighting will not be considered unless operational between the hours of $1{-}8\mathsf{p m}$ during the months of June, July, August, and September.   
 Comparison is to be made to the International Energy Conservation Code applicable to the project but not less than IECC 2012.   
 Submit a copy of the Comcheck $\textcircled{8}$ report or similar reporting document for verification signed by the professional of record. In lieu of the presence of a professional of record, the report must include the following supporting documentation: overall floor plan with square footage lighting plan clearly identifying the quantity and type of fixtures, and specification sheets of each light fixture type.  

Building Area Type Square Footage LPD Allowance (Watts per Sq. Ft.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Allowed Wattage (LPDxSquareFootage)</td><td>(A)</td><td rowspan="3">kW Saved (D)</td><td rowspan="3">AnnualHoursof Operation(page 2)</td><td rowspan="3">AnnualkWhSaved</td></tr><tr><td>WattsInstalled</td><td>(B)</td></tr><tr><td>Watts Demand Saved (A-B)</td><td>(C)</td></tr><tr><td>KWDemandSaved(C/1000)</td><td>(D)</td><td colspan="2" rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>KWDemandSaved(D)X$350</td><td colspan="4">Total Incentive Section D-Whole Building Lighting Incentive</td></tr></table></body></html>  

DLC / ENERGY STAR certification is not required for Power Density Rebate. Section D Subtotal \$  

# DLC / ENERGY STAR Custom Lighting  - $\$350$ per kW Reduction (Items not listed in above sections)  

IMPORTANT: This section is for items not found in sections above ONLY, unless otherwise approved by Bright Energy Solutions staff.  All LED products must be ENERGY STAR certified or DesignLights Consortium approved to be considered for this incentives. Approved products can be found at www.energystar.gov and www.designlights.org.  

For assistance and verification of incentives, please contact the utility.  

If not provided below, detailed calculations and assumptions must be attached with this application, and must be sufficient to verify the demand and energy reductions claimed. Attach additional supporting documents and specifications as necessary.  

Please describe, in detail, the BASELINE equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, etc.)  

Please describe, in detail, the PROPOSED equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, etc.)  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">kWDemand of Baseline Equipment (A) kW Demand of Proposed Equipment (B)</td><td>kW Saved (C)</td><td>Annual Hours of Operation (page 2)</td><td>AnnualkWhSaved</td></tr><tr><td>KW Demand Saved (A-B)</td><td>(C)</td><td></td><td>X</td><td>=</td></tr><tr><td>KW Demand Saved(C)X$350</td><td></td><td>Total Incentive Section E—Custom Lighting</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="4"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Indoor Lighting New Construction for Business Customers Application 2025  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Summary of Incentives</td></tr><tr><td>SectionA:LEDTechnologies</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section B: LED High or Low Bay Lighting</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section C: LED Indoor Grow Lighting Fixtures</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section D: Whole Building Interior Lighting</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section E: Custom Lighting—Energy Star Qualified or DLC Listed</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>TotalIncentive:</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Certifications and Signature  

I hereby certify that:  

1. The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;   
2. All installation is complete and the unit(s) is operational prior to submitting application;   
3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;   
4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the   
last page of this application form.  

The customer agrees to verification of equipment installation which may include a site inspection by a program or utility representative. The customer understands that it is not allowed to receive more than one incentive from this program on any piece of equipment. The customer agrees to indemnify, defend, hold harmless and release The Utility from any claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from or relating to the removal, disposal, installation or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, including any incidental, special or consequential damages.  

Please sign and complete all information below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">Customer Signature</td><td colspan="2">Print Name</td></tr><tr><td>Title</td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

Attach a Copy of the equipment Invoice Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

Specification sheets  

Comcheck report (If applying for section E rebate)  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td>Date Received:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Date Pre-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Date Post-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Incentive Approved:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Amount: $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Utility or Program Representative:</td></tr></table></body></html>  