# VFD and Pump Incentive Application for Business Customers  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:  

Step 1: Determine Eligibility:  Pre-approval is required if the potential incentive is greater than \$20,000. Contact The Utility for pre-approval. See last page of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 2: Install Equipment. See last page of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 3: Complete and Submit Application. A completed application and all required supporting documents must be received by The Utility within 90 days of installation. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application.  

Email the application and supporting documentation to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com  

OR  

Mail the application and all supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# VFD and Pump Incentive Application for Business Customers  

HAS THIS PROJECT BEEN PREAPPROVED?   YES   NO  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="8">DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>CompanyName InstallationAddress</td><td>[City</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td>MailingAddress</td><td colspan="3">City</td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td>Phone</td><td colspan="3">Installation (Completion) Date</td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Email Address*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">By providing your email address, you are granting The Utility permission to send emails regarding this project and/or updates on the incentive program. Municipal Utility Account Number</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">BuildingUse-PleaseCheckOne office Retail Convenience Store Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing School:ElementarySecondary/HighSchool College Healthcare: Clinic Hospital</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Other/Miscellaneous:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Facility Hours of Operation</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Hours per Day Days per Week WeeksperYear</td><td colspan="3">HoursperYear(hoursxdaysxweeks)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Vendor/Contractor Information</td></tr><tr><td>Company Name</td><td colspan="3">Contact Name</td><td colspan="3">Phone</td></tr><tr><td>Address</td><td colspan="3">[City</td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Email Address*</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">Payment Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendoror Contractor(listed above) 口 AlternateRecipient If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section:</td></tr><tr><td>CompanyName</td><td>ContactName</td><td colspan="2">Phone</td></tr><tr><td>Address</td><td>City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# VFD and Pump Incentive Application for Business Customers  

A. Variable Frequency Drives (VFD’s) on HVAC Fans, HVAC Pumps and Process Pumps  

The equipment below is (check one)   New Equipment         Add VFD to existing equipment  

VFD’s used to replace existing or failed VFD’s do not qualify for incentives.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>VFD Used to Control (Check One)</td><td>VFD Motor Horsepower*</td><td>Make/Model or Catalog # Qty</td><td>Incentive*</td><td>Annual Operating Hrs (Minimum of 1500)</td><td>Date Installed & Operable (MM/YY)</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Process Pump HVAC Pump HVAC Fan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$40.00/hp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Process Pump HVAC Pump HVAC Fan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$40.00/hp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Process Pump HVAC Pump HVAC Fan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$40.00/hp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Process Pump HVAC Pump HVAC Fan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$40.00/hp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Process Pump HVAC Pump HVAC Fan</td><td></td><td></td><td>$40.00/hp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Subtotal Section A:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# PLEASE ATTACH THE FOLLOWING REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:  

1. Invoice clearly showing proof of purchase including date purchased, model numbers and cost. If contractor installed, please include installation date, address and total project cost.  

#  VFD’s used to replace existing or failed VFD’s do not qualify for incentives.  

Ds must be automatically controlled by a variable signal, and have load diversity that will result in savings through motor speed variation.  

The motor controlled must be set to operate a minimum of 1500 hours annually to be eligible for incentive. Redundant or backup units do not qualify.  This incentive is for VFD’s used on process pumps, HVAC pumps and HVAC fans only.  Examples include VFD’s used to control the following:  HVAC fans, boiler draft fans, cooling tower fans, chilled water distribution pumps, and hot water distribution pumps.  

 HVAC FANS.  Incentives for VFD’s used to control HVAC fans are only offered for VFD’s installed on existing HVAC fans up to 400 horsepower. Incentives are available for retrofits only and are not offered for new construction or new installations.  

 WALL AXIAL FANS.  Incentives for VFD’s used to control wall axial fans (shuttered wall fans, sidewall prop fans, etc.) used in conditioned spaces are offered for new installations and retrofits.  

 HVAC PUMPS.  Incentives for VFD’s used to control HVAC pumps are only offered for VFD’s installed on existing HVAC equipment and are limited to pumps up to 400 horsepower.  Incentives are available for retrofits only and are not offered for new construction or new installations except for pumps $<7.5\mathsf{H P}$ .  

PROCESS PUMPS.  Incentives for VFD’s used to control process pumps are limited to the following horsepower ranges:  

$^*$  For new process pumps - only VFD’s used to control motors 1 through 50 horsepower are eligible.   
 For retrofit of existing process pumps - only VFD’s added to control motors 1 through 400 horsepower are eligible.  

\*Maximum incentive cannot exceed $75\%$ of the total project cost including installation.  

# VFD and Pump Incentive Application for Business Customers  

B. High Efficiency Pumps (1 Through 20 HP Only)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Pump Type</td><td>Make/Model or Catalog #</td><td>Qty</td><td>Horsepower Installed</td><td>Incentive per Horse- power*</td><td colspan="2">Pump Energy Index (PEI) PEl of Pump PEI</td><td>Annual Operating Hrs (Minimum 1500)</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Constant Load Pumps</td><td>Installed</td><td>Required</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="9"></td></tr><tr><td>ESFM</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$11.00</td><td></td><td>≤.93</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ESCC</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$11.00</td><td></td><td></td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>IL</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$9.00</td><td></td><td>≤.94</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>RSV</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$20.00</td><td></td><td>≤.87</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ST</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$13.00 VariableLoad Pumps</td><td></td><td>≤.92</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="9"></td></tr><tr><td>ESFM</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$31.00</td><td></td><td>≤.46</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ESCC</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$22.00</td><td></td><td>.≤47</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>IL</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$22.00</td><td></td><td>≤.48</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>RSV</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$25.00</td><td></td><td></td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ST</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$6.00</td><td></td><td>≤.55</td><td>Hrs.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7"></td><td>Subtotal Section B $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">ESFM = End Suction, Frame Mounted ESCC = End Suction, Close Coupled IL = In-Line RSV = Radially Split, Multi-state, Vertical in-line Diffuser Casing ST = Submersible Turbine</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# PLEASE ATTACH THE FOLLOWING REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:  

<html><body><table><tr><td>2) Invoice clearly showing proof of purchase including date purchased, model numbers, horsepower and cost. If contractor installed, please include installationdate,addressandtotalprojectcost.</td></tr><tr><td>·Pump efficiency is based on the Pump Energy Index (PEl) as certified by the Hydraulic Institute for the specific model and load type (constant or</td></tr><tr><td>variable).</td></tr><tr><td>·Pumps must be set to operate a minimum of 1500 hours annually to be eligible.</td></tr><tr><td>aximumincentivecannotexceed75%ofthetotalprojectcostincludinginstallation.</td></tr><tr><td>ump Efficiency represents the efficiency at the design operating point on the pump curve.</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# VFD and Pump Incentive Application for Business Customers  

Summary of Incentives  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Section A: Variable Frequency Drives on HVAC Fans, HVAC Pumps and Process Pumps</td><td>S</td></tr><tr><td>SectionB:HighEfficiencyPumps</td><td>S</td></tr><tr><td>TotalIncentive:</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Certifications and Signature  

I hereby certify that:  

1. The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;   
2. All installation is complete and the unit(s) is operational prior to submitting application;   
3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;   
4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the   
last page of this application form.  

The customer agrees to verification of equipment installation which may include a site inspection by a program or utility representative. The customer understands that it is not allowed to receive more than one incentive from this program on any piece of equipment. The customer agrees to indemnify, defend, hold harmless and release The Utility from any claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from or relating to the removal, disposal, installation or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, including any incidental, special or consequential damages.  

Please sign and complete all information below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">Customer Signature</td><td colspan="2">PrintName</td></tr><tr><td>Title</td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

# Attach a Copy of the Equipment Invoice  

Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

# Specification sheets  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td rowspan="2">DateReceived: Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes 口No</td><td>Date Pre-lnspected:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes No</td><td>Date Post-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Incentive Approved:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Amount $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Utility or Program Representative:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions for Bright Energy Solutions Business Incentives  

# ELIGIBILITY:  

Bright Energy Solutions incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, call your local utility listed on the cover page of this application.   
Commercial, industrial, and governmental customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in this Bright Energy Solutions® incentive program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed under a commercial or industrial rate class by The Utility. Excludes equipment for residential spaces such as apartments.   
Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs.  

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  

1. Incentive Offer:  Projects, including all required installation, must be completed by December 31 of the year indicated on this application form. A signed application and itemized invoices for materials and labor must be submitted to The Utility within 90 calendar days of project completion. Please keep a copy for your records.   
2. Proof of Purchase:  This application must have complete information and be submitted with invoices itemizing the new equipment purchased and labor costs. Invoices must indicate date of purchase, make, model and total project cost. OEM specification sheets or DLC documents must also be provided where applicable and available.  

3. Compliance:  

a) All projects must comply with federal, state, and local code, licensing, and permit requirements. b) All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for incentives. Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of. c) Equipment must meet specification requirements and be purchased, installed and operating prior to submitting an incentive application. d) Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. e) All projects for which more than $\$20,000$ in incentive payments is sought must be approved by The Utility in writing prior to the commencement of the project. Receipt of pre-approval does not guarantee incentive payments will be made. All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer. 4. Payment:  Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are made within 4-8 weeks. Incomplete applications will delay payments. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation for violations of program rules and procedures.   
5. Inspection:  The Utility may conduct an inspection of any installed projects. All projects exceeding $\$10,000$ of incentives will be inspected prior to incentive payment.   
6. Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities.   
7. Program Discretion: This program is subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program.   
8. Logo Use:  Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission.  

9. Disclaimers:  The Utility:  

a) does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs;   
b) will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives;   
c) does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work;   
d) is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project;   
e) is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken under the programs described in this application;   
f) does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program.  

# INCENTIVE LIMIT:  

Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive an energy efficiency incentive of up to $\$100,000$ per customer, per calendar year. Payments for larger incentives may be allowed at the discretion of The Utility.   
• Total incentive will not exceed 75 percent of the project cost, including installation. If self-installed, incentives can be up to the equipment purchase price, but shall not exceed the Bright Energy Solutions incentives set by Missouri River Energy Services.  