# Income Qualified Weatherization Program  

# Explanation:  

Lane Electric members on a limited income (LIEAP qualified) are now eligible for a grant for qualifying weatherization measures in their home. This opportunity is available to single or multifamily residences provided permanently installed electric heat exists in the dwelling. Structures must be sound and in good repair before funds will be available.  

Members are not obligated to reimburse Lane Electric for these funds.  

Eligible measures include: vinyl window replacements, ceiling, floor, and wall insulation, HVAC duct sealing, door and window caulking, weatherstripping, and general air sealing. First priority in homes with forced air heating systems should be duct sealing and insulation in an effort to ensure that all conditioned air makes it into the home.  

# How It Works:  

The member request an energy analysis for the dwelling.  Next, please follow the easy steps on the yellow checklist enclosed in the packet. The boxes provided at each step will allow you to chart your progress.  It is very important that all the Lane Electric forms and bid sheets be filled out and returned to our office.  Funds will not be allocated for your project unless all forms are returned to Lane Electric. Upon receipt of paperwork from the member, Lane Electric will review the project and call with approval or further suggestions.  At the time of approval, the member will notify the chosen contractor to proceed with the work.  

Upon inspection and approval of installed measures, payment will be made to the contractor using approved loan funds or cash grants.  

# Income Qualified Weatherization Program Checklist  

# Obtain Bids and Return Funding Request  

Obtain at least two bids from state licensed contractors. The Lane Electric Weatherization Contractors List provides contact information for many qualifying area contractors. Return chosen bid along with the completed Notice of Bid Preference / Income Statement (green form). Be sure to indicate the contractor(s) you have selected to perform the work.  

If you elect to do the work yourself, contact the Energy Services Department and request further instructions. Provide an estimate showing all your estimated material costs. Return your estimate and the Notice of Bid Preference / Income Statement form, entering “Do-it-yourself” under the contractor heading.  

# Fund Approval  

Grant approval will come from Lane Electric within 14 days. Please do not obligate yourself to a contractor or begin work yourself before you receive fund authorization from Lane Electric.  

# Install Measures  

After grant approval, contact your selected contractor and have them (or yourself) begin the work.  

# Inspection Request  

Once the work is complete, please contact the Energy Services Department at Lane Electric to schedule a final inspection appointment.  

# Contractor Payment  

Lane Electric will issue grant funds to the contractor after inspections and approval.  

# Income Qualified Ductless Heat Pump Program Notice of Bid Preference / Income Statement  

I have chosen the following contractor to perform a ductless heat pump installation: Contractor:  

# Verification of Income  

I have provided documentation that as of this date my total household income is $60\%$ or less than the median income identified below.  

I, (print name) am a member of Lane Electric Cooperative and have   
electric resistance heat in my home at (Address)   
Account #: Phone #:  

# 2025 (please circle one)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Size of Family</td><td>AnnualIncome 60% of Median</td><td>MonthlyIncome 60%ofMedian</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>$36,811</td><td>$3,068</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>$48,138</td><td>$4,012</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>$59,464</td><td>$4,955</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>$70,790</td><td>$5,899</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>$82,117</td><td>$6,843</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>$93,443</td><td>$7,787</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Note: Income includes all gross wages, tips, rental income, public assistance, Social Security or pensions, income from self- employment, alimony, interest or any other sources of income defined by the IRS on form 1040, line 22. A representative from Lane Electric has reviewed a verifiable source of income documentation and certifies that this household qualifies for assistance.  

# Program Tracking Information:  

1. I _own / rent my home. (circle one)   
2. Type of heating systems in home   
3. Year home was constructed   
4. _Site built or Manufactured Home_(circle one)  

Applicant Signature_ Date LEC Representative Date  

# Discount Windows  

1635 Juniper Street Junction City, OR 97448 Phone (541) 998‐8984 Fax (541) 998‐3078 CCB# 180018 Windows  

# Emerald Valley Weatherization  

148 N 14th St   
Springfield, OR 97477   
Phone (541) 726‐1027   
Fax (541) 744‐7841   
CCB# 105404   
Windows & Insulation, Ductless   
Heat Pumps  

# Energy Factor Glass  

PO Box 2214   
Jasper, OR 97438   
Phone (541) 726‐7231   
Fax (541) 726‐2708   
CCB# 182668   
Windows  

# Home Comfort Heating & Air Conditioning  

2730 Rooselvelt   
Eugene, OR 97402   
Phone (541) 345‐2838   
Fax (541) 302‐3070   
CCB# 84164   
American Standard, Ductless   
Mini‐splits, Insulation  

# Home Insulation  

PO Box 2356   
Eugene,OR 97402   
Phone (541) 484‐1733   
Fax (541) 461‐1513   
CCB# 84   
Insulation  

# Insul 8, Inc  

732 Shelly St   
Springfield, OR 97478   
Phone (541) 747‐1586   
Fax (541) 747‐1603   
CCB# 173743   
Insulation  

# Jones Window & Door  

PO Box 705   
Veneta, OR 97487   
Phone (541) 344‐2000   
Fax (541) 935‐4650   
CCB# 189714   
Windows & Doors  

# Josh Lowe's Dr Energy Saver  

PO Box 21337   
Eugene, OR 97402   
Phone (541) 485‐2282   
Fax (541) 485‐2292   
CCB# 176741   
Insulation  

# Mark & Co  

157 S 47th St   
Springfield, OR 97478   
Phone (541) 689‐2830   
Fax (541) 461‐2309   
CCB# 119715   
Windows  

# Marshall’s Inc.  

4110 Olympic St.   
Springfield, OR 97477   
Phone (541) 747‐7445 Fax (541) 741‐0821 CCB# 25790   
Insulation / Carrier Heat   
Pumps/Ductless Heat Pumps  