# NY-Sun PV Incentive Program (Commercial and Industrial) 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-11-15 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-11-15 19:45:34 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Installers/Contractors 
 ***start date*** : 2015-05-04 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2030-12-31 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) 
 ***funding Source*** : NY Clean Energy Fund and RGGI funding 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Incentives based on MW blocks (as of November 2023):  
Upstate Region: $0.05/W

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : 750kW - 7.5 MW

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Must be installed by a NYSERDA approved contractor.

 
 ## Summary : 
 New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) through NY-
Sun Commercial/Industrial Incentive Program ([PON
3082](https://portal.nyserda.ny.gov/CORE_Solicitation_Detail_Page?SolicitationId=a0rt0000000QnDbAAK))
provides performance-based incentives for installation by contractors of non-
residential new grid connected solar photovoltaic (PV) systems that are
ranging from 750kW to 7.5MW in the Upstate region. Incentives for residential
sites in all regions, nonresidential sites 750 kW or less in Upstate and PEG
Long Island regions, and nonresidential sites 7.5MW or less in Con Ed region
are offered through the [NY- Residential & Nonresidential
program](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/701/ny-sun-pv-
incentive-program-residential-low-income-and-small-business). Incentives are
awarded on a first-come, first serve basis, and project applications will be
accepted through December 31, 2030, or until funds are fully committed,
whichever comes first.

**Eligibility**

Incentives are provided to new customer-sited PV systems, greater than 750 kW
per electric meter, that are grid connected and displace utility provided
electricity. Funding for the NY-Sun program has been allocated by the New York
State Clean Energy Fund (CEF) and Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI),
and the [Order Authorizing the Clean Energy Fund
Framework](https://documents.dps.ny.gov/public/MatterManagement/MatterFilingItem.aspx?FilingSeq=153128&MatterSeq=44959),
dated January 21, 2016. An Order, dated May 14, 2020, authorizes additional
CEF funds to achieve the goal of 6 GW by 2025. A further
[Order](https://documents.dps.ny.gov/public/MatterManagement/MatterFilingItem.aspx?FilingSeq=285437&MatterSeq=44959),
dated April 14, 2022, authorized additional CEF funds to achieve the expanded
goal of 10 GW by 2030.

**Program Description**

The program offers incentives based on the performance of the PV system as a
function of annual energy production. The program also offers additional
incentives for projects located on a landfill or brownfield, and Community
Distributed Generation (CDG) solar projects that did not qualify for a Market
Transition Credit (MTC) under the Value Stack. The Inclusive Community Solar
Adder (ICSA) is also available for nonresidential CDG projects serving low-to-
moderate income (LMI) subscribers, affordable housing, and other facilities
serving disadvantaged communities. For projects with a capacity of 1 MW or
greater that submit utility interconnection applications after 4/14/2022,
incentives will be conditional on the developer paying prevailing wages for
construction activities associated with project design and installation.

**MW Blocks**

Incentives are based on the Megawatt (MW) Block design that allocates specific
incremental MW targets to specific regions of the state. NY-Sun assigns a
certain amount of incentives to each of the three regions (ConEd, Long Island,
and Upstate region). Each region is then broken into blocks that are
designated an allocation of megawatts (MW) eligible for NY-Sun incentives.
Incentives remain available until all blocks within a region/sector are fully
subscribed. NY-Sun intends to phase out incentives within a reasonable time
frame as market conditions become more favorable to solar. The MW block
structure is designed to support solar markets in the areas where support is
needed most, and decrease incentives as they become less necessary to a self-
sustaining solar market throughout New York. Real time incentive amounts for
the Upstate MW block can be viewed [here](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
Programs/NY-Sun/Contractors/Dashboards-and-incentives/Upstate-Dashboard).

**Incentive Amount**

The base incentive for the project is based on two years of PV System
Estimated Annual Energy Production using 13.4% capacity factor (CF) for fixed
systems at the incentive associated with the block in which the project
application is approved by NYSERDA.

**Additional Incentives**

As mentioned above, additional incentives are available if installations meet
certain criteria. Ground mounted solar electric systems on brownfield or
landfills are eligible to receive a $0.15/W incentive in addition to the
standard incentive. Projects serving multifamily affordable housing properties
will receive a total incentive of $1.00/W for the first 200kW of the project.
CDG projects on eligible properties will receive an additional $0.15/W if the
property is owned by a public housing authority or nonprofit organization with
additional criteria. The ICSA is available for CDG projects serving LMI
subscribers, affordable housing, residents of disadvantaged communities
(DACs), and select nonprofits and public facilities located within and serving
DACs. The current ICSA is $0.10/W. Real time ICSA incentive amounts can be
viewed [here](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/NY-
Sun/Contractors/Dashboards-and-incentives/Inclusive-Community-Solar-Adder).

**Contractor Requirements**

Incentives are paid directly to the pre-approved contractor and must be
applied in full to the cost of the PV system, thereby reducing the out-of-
pocket cost to the customer. Interested parties with appropriate credentials
can apply through the NY-Sun program
[website](http://www.nyserda.ny.gov/become-a-solar-contractor) to register as
a participating contractor. Participating contractors are responsible for
installing the system, and submitting all required PV incentive applications
to NYSERDA.

 
 