# Custom Efficiency Incentive Application for Business Customers  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# Instructions for Use:  

1. Complete the application (signature not required) for your proposed project. See the last page of this application form for Terms and Conditions. Submit the completed application and the following required documentation to The Utility for pre-approval (see contact information below):  

a. Descriptions of the existing and proposed equipment or measure.   
b. Calculations of estimated demand and energy savings, along with documentation of assumptions.   
c. Certification of the calculations and measures proposed.  

2. The Utility will schedule a site visit for verification of equipment.  

3. After The Utility provides a written Preapproval of Custom Rebate, purchase and install the equipment or measure.  

4. Within 90 days of the equipment being installed and operational, submit the signed application, copies of itemized invoices (including costs, quantities, makes, model numbers, and sizes) along with manufacturer’s specification sheets showing efficiency ratings for all equipment. Also submit updated calculations of demand and energy savings, if applicable.  

5. The Utility will schedule a post-inspection site visit.  

6. Please allow 6 to 10 weeks for final review and processing of your completed application and payment of eligible incentives. Email the application and all supporting documentation to:  rebate@brightenergysolutions.com Or mail or deliver the application and supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# Custom Efficiency Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">customLhmciehc 2025</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Customer Information (Please Print)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Company Name</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td>DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>InstallationAddress</td><td>[City</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td>MailingAddress</td><td colspan="3">City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td>Phone</td><td colspan="6">Installation(Completion) Date</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Email Address*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Municipal Utility Account Number Building Use-Please Check One office Retail ConvenienceStore Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing School:ElementarySecondary/HighSchool College Healthcare: Clinic Hospital</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Hours per Day</td><td colspan="2">Facility Hours of Operation WeeksperYear</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2">Hours per Year(hours x days x weeks)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Vendor/Contractor Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name Address City</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name State</td><td colspan="3">Phone</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Email Address*</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">Payment Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendor or Contractor(listed above) AlternateRecipient If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section:</td></tr><tr><td>CompanyName</td><td>ContactName</td><td colspan="2">Phone</td></tr><tr><td>Address</td><td>City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Custom Efficiency Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Project Information IMPORTANT: If not included below, detailed calculations and assumptions must be attached with this application, and</td></tr><tr><td>specificationsasnecessary. Please describe, in detail, the EXISTING or BASELINE equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, etc.):</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>The proposed equipment is (check one): New Equipment Retrofit Equipment Replace Failed Equipment</td></tr><tr><td>(Retrofit Equipment is a replacement of working equipment. Replace Failed Equipment is replacing equipment that is no longer functioning.)</td></tr><tr><td>kW (Demand) Reduction Incentive Calculation The custom electric incentive is $350 per average kilowatt (kW) saved during utility peak hours, which are defined as weekdays between the ate regularly during the peak hours defined above in order to qualify. All custom electric incentives are limited to 75% of total project cost</td></tr></table></body></html>  

kW Demand of Existing Equipment (A) (If there is no existing equipment, use kW demand of base model comparison.)   
kW Demand of Proposed Equipment (B) Annual Hours   
KW Demand Saved (A-B) = (C) kW saved (C) x of Operation $\underline{{\underline{{\mathbf{\delta\pi}}}}}$ Annual kWh  Saved (E)   
KW Demand Saved (C ) X \$350 = (D) kW Incentive  

# Certifications and Signature  

I hereby certify that:  

1. The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;   
2. Installation will be complete and the unit operational before submitting application for final payment;   
3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;   
4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the   
last page of this application form.  

The customer agrees to verification of equipment installation which may include a site inspection by a program or utility representative. The customer understands that it is not allowed to receive more than one incentive from this program on any piece of equipment. The customer agrees to indemnify, defend, hold harmless and release The Utility from any claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from or relating to the removal, disposal, installation or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, including any incidental, special or consequential damages.  

Please sign and complete all information below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">Customer Signature</td><td colspan="2">Print Name</td></tr><tr><td>Title</td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application for final payment please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

# Attach a Copy of the Equipment Invoice  

Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

# Specification sheets  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td>Date Received:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes No</td><td>Date Pre-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes No</td><td>Date Post-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>IncentiveApproved:</td><td>Yes 口No</td><td>Amount $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Utility or Program Representative:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions for Bright Energy Solutions Business Incentives  

# ELIGIBILITY:  

Bright Energy Solutions incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, call your local utility listed on the cover page of this application.   
Commercial, industrial, and governmental customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in this Bright Energy Solutions® incentive program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed under a commercial or industrial rate class by The Utility. Excludes equipment for residential spaces such as apartments.   
Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs.  

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  

1. Incentive Offer:  Projects, including all required installation, must be completed by December 31 of the year indicated on this application form. A signed application and itemized invoices for materials and labor must be submitted to The Utility within 90 calendar days of project completion. Please keep a copy for your records.   
2. Proof of Purchase:  This application must have complete information and be submitted with invoices itemizing the new equipment purchased and labor costs. Invoices must indicate date of purchase, make, model and total project cost. OEM specification sheets or DLC documents must also be provided where applicable and available.  

3. Compliance:  

a) All projects must comply with federal, state, and local code, licensing, and permit requirements. b) All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for incentives. Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of. c) Equipment must meet specification requirements and be purchased, installed and operating prior to submitting an incentive application. d) Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. e) All projects for which more than $\$20,000$ in incentive payments is sought must be approved by The Utility in writing prior to the commencement of the project. Receipt of pre-approval does not guarantee incentive payments will be made. All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer. 4. Payment:  Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are made within 4-8 weeks. Incomplete applications will delay payments. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation for violations of program rules and procedures.   
5. Inspection:  The Utility may conduct an inspection of any installed projects. All projects exceeding $\$10,000$ of incentives will be inspected prior to incentive payment.   
6. Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities.   
7. Program Discretion: This program is subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program.   
8. Logo Use:  Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission.  

9. Disclaimers:  The Utility:  

a) does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs;   
b) will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives;   
c) does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work;   
d) is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project;   
e) is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken under the programs described in this application;   
f) does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program.  

# INCENTIVE LIMIT:  

Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive an energy efficiency incentive of up to $\$100,000$ per customer, per calendar year. Payments for larger incentives may be allowed at the discretion of The Utility.   
• Total incentive will not exceed 75 percent of the project cost, including installation. If self-installed, incentives can be up to the equipment purchase price, but shall not exceed the Bright Energy Solutions incentives set by Missouri River Energy Services.  