Renewable Energy  > Solar $>$ Solar for Your Building $>$ Making Solar Equitable  

# Making Solar Equitable  

Increased Solar Incentives for Nonprofits, Tribes and Affordable Multifamily Housing  

At Energy Trust, we believe solar is for everyone. That’s why we work to ensure all customers can benefit from solar power, including communities of color, people experiencing low and moderate incomes, and the organizations that serve these communities. And communities can be stronger and more resilient when solar projects include battery storage to provide backup power for essential equipment during outages.  

To make going solar easier and more affordable for eligible nonprofits, tribes and affordable multifamily housing projects, we offer increased solar installation incentives that are higher than our regular incentives.  

You may also qualify for a battery storage incentive that reduces the cost of adding backup power. And the Solar Development Assistance and Battery Storage Development Assistance incentives can help you determine the potential of your project up front.  

Your organization may also qualify for other grants or rebates and an Energy Trust solar trade ally can help you connect with those resources (see the Financing tab below).  

Get a free, no-risk analysis and bid >  

# Save Energy Too  

\$ energy upgrades.  

# Energy Trust Incentives  

To help you determine the solar potential of your project, Energy Trust offers Solar Development Assistance and Battery Storage Development Assistance incentives. We also offer increased solar installation incentives for nonprofit organizations, tribes and affordable multifamily housing to make solar more affordable and accessible, as well as battery storage incentives. The incentive amounts depend on the size of your system and your electric utility. Incentives are subject to funding availability and may change at any time. Check with your trade ally contractor.  

# Portland General Electric Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Planning Incentives</td><td>Incentive Amount</td><td>Requirements</td></tr><tr><td>Solar Development Assistance</td><td>$2,500</td><td>Customer or project type is one of the fc</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>maximum</td><td>New Building</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Solar + Storage</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Nonprofit</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Public</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Tribal Utility Grant Applicant</td></tr><tr><td>Battery Storage</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Development Assistance</td><td>$5,000 maximum</td><td>Customer or project type is one of the fc</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>New Building</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Solar + Storage</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Nonprofit</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Public</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Tribal Utility Grant Applicant</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Installation Incentives</td><td>Increased Incentive Amount</td><td>Requirements</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for Tribes</td><td>$1.00/watt,</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$50,000 maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for</td><td>$0.75/watt,</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td>Affordable Housing</td><td>$45,000 maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for Qualifying</td><td>$0.50/watt,</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td>Nonprofits</td><td>$30,000 maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Battery storage incentive</td><td>$475/kWh, $14,250 maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 3 kWh capacity rating</td></tr><tr><td>Pacific Power Customers</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Planning Incentives</td><td>Incentive Amount</td><td>Requirements</td></tr><tr><td>Solar Development Assistance</td><td>$2,500 maximum</td><td>Customer or project type is one of the fol New Building Solar + Storage Nonprofit</td></tr><tr><td>Battery Storage</td><td></td><td>Public Tribe Utility Grant Applicant</td></tr><tr><td>Development</td><td>$5,000 maximum</td><td>Customer or project type is one of the fol</td></tr><tr><td>Assistance</td><td></td><td>New Building Solar + Storage</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Nonprofit Public</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Tribe</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Utility Grant Applicant</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Increased</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Installation Incentives</td><td>Incentive</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Amount</td><td>Requirements</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for Tribes</td><td>$1,00/watt,</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$50,000 maximum</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for Affordable Housing</td><td>$0.70/watt,</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>$42,000 maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr><tr><td>Solar for Qualifying</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Nonprofits</td><td>$0.50/watt, $30,000</td><td>Project size cap: 360 kW-AC</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>maximum</td><td>Minimum size: 2 kW-DC</td></tr><tr><td>Battery storage incentive maximum</td><td>$475/kWh, $14,250</td><td>Minimum size: 3 kWh capacity rating</td></tr></table></body></html>  

To qualify for Energy Trust increased solar incentives aimed at increasing solar equity, the property must meet fit one of these categories:  

Owned and operated by one of the nine federally recognized tribes of Oregon.   
Affordable multifamily property where at least $50\%$ of the property’s dwelling units associated with the project, are and shall remain dedicated for residents who are at or below $80\%$ Area Median Income (AMI) for at least 10 years after project completion.   
501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that is a customer of Portland General Electric or Pacific Power, is registered with the Oregon Secretary of State and has a stated mission and track record of delivering programs directly benefiting communities and individuals including, but not limited to, Black, Indigenous, and other communities of color, communities experiencing lower incomes, federally recognized Indian tribes, rural communities, coastal communities, communities with limited infrastructure, and other communities and individuals traditionally underrepresented in public processes and programs to incent and advance solar energy installations.  

# Additional solar options  

Solar Development Assistance incentives to help launch projects   
Solar Planning for new buildings or major renovations   
Solar + Storage for backup power to make your building more resilient during an outage and keep essential equipment operating   
Community Solar subscription options if you lease, if your roof doesn’t have enough sun exposure, or if your budget doesn’t allow for investment in your own system Community Solar Project Development assistance for qualifying organizations interested in developing Community Solar projects  

# Need Help? Contact Us.  

We’re here to explain the process and benefits. Give us a call at 1.877.777.4018 or send us an email at solar@energytrust.org.  

TRADE ALLY CONTRACTORS  
BECOME A TRADE ALLY  
INSIDER  
TRAINING $^+$ FORUMS  
STAY IN TOUCH  
CONTACT US  
KNOWN SCAMS  
FACEBOOK  
INSTAGRAM  
LINKEDIN  
ABOUT US  
BLOG  
CAREERS  
CONTRACTING  
OPPORTUNITIES  
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND  
INCLUSION  
EVENTS  
NEWS  

# SERVING CUSTOMERS OF  