# Indoor Lighting Retrofit Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:  

Step 1: Determine Eligibility:  Pre-approval is required if the potential incentive is greater than \$20,000. Contact The Utility for pre-approval. See last pages of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 2: Install Equipment. See last pages of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 3: Complete and Submit Application. A completed application and all required supporting documents must be received by The Utility within 90 days of installation. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application.  

Email the application and supporting documentation to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com  

OR  

Mail the application and all supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# Indoor Lighting Retrofit Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025  

HAS THIS PROJECT BEEN PREAPPROVED?   YES   NO  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td colspan="2">DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>InstallationAddress</td><td colspan="2">[City</td><td>State</td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">MailingAddress</td><td colspan="2">City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Phone</td><td colspan="2">InstallationCompletedDate</td><td colspan="2">Is the space air conditioned? Yes No</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Email Address*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Municipal Utility Account Number</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Building Use-Please Check One office Retail Convenience Store Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Grocery/Supermarket Healthcare: Clinic Hospital Other/Miscellaneous:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Facility Hours of Operation</td></tr><tr><td>Hours per Day</td><td>Days per Week</td><td>Weeks per Year</td><td colspan="3">HoursperYear(hoursxdaysxweeks)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Vendor/ContractorInformation</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td colspan="2">Phone</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Address City Email Address*</td><td colspan="2">State</td><td></td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Payment Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendor or Contractor (listed above)Alternate Recipient</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section: Company Name Contact Name</td><td colspan="3">Phone</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Address</td><td colspan="2">City State</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="3"></td><td colspan="2">Zip Code</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# General Equipment Eligibility  

The installation of energy-efficient lighting and associated equipment must result in a reduction in electric load.   
 All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications and installed in facilities within the service territory of The Utility.  Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of – not reused or sold for use elsewhere. If any equipment listed in this program is required by code, the offer of an incentive for such equipment is null and void. All fixtures shall be installed indoors, except exterior lighting operated 24/7 such as sign lighting   
 All fixture installations must be permanent, except for the installation of screw-in or plug-in lamps. All fixtures, lamps, and ballasts must be UL or ETL listed to U.S. safety standards for operation as installed and must meet all applicable codes and regulations. Customers are responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of lamps and ballasts and must appropriately document such disposal as required by this application and applicable law.  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td>Incentive per</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incen-</td></tr><tr><td>Installed Equipment NOTE—OtherLED</td><td colspan="2">Specifications Indoor DesignLights TM or ENERGY STAR? certified fixtures and retrofit kits not noted</td><td>Unit</td><td></td><td>tive</td></tr><tr><td>LED Lamp</td><td colspan="2">here may be eligible for an incentive under the Custom Incentive section on page 5. Contact the utilityfor details. 2 or 4 pin base LED lamp replacing compact fluorescent lamp. 4 pin LED lamp must be listed</td><td>$5.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2 Pin or 4 Pin Base LEDENERGYSTAR? Downlight Fixture or</td><td colspan="2">on the DesignLights Consortium (DLC) Qualified Product List. See www.DesignLights.org. Indoor installations only. LED downlight fixture must be ENERGY STAR LED lighting qualified. A downlight fixture is a</td><td>$4.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Retrofit Kit 4'LED Linear Lamp DLCTM Qualified</td><td colspan="2">direct-lighting unit that directs the light downward and can be recessed or surface mounted. Indoorinstallationsonly. LED lamp must be listed on the DesignLights Consortium (DLC) Qualified Replacing T8 or Product Listunder 4'LinearReplacement Lamps or U-Bend Replacement</td><td>$4.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8' LED Linear Lamp DLCTM Qualified</td><td>T12 Fluorescent Replacing T8 or T12 Fluorescent</td><td>Lamps. See www.DesignLights.org. Indoor installations only. Custom incentive may be considered for Type B and Type C installations. LED lamp must be listed on the DesignLights Consortium (DLC) Qualified Product List under 8'Linear Replacement Lamps.See www.DesignLights.org. Indoor installations only. Custom incentive may be</td><td>$5.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>LED Exit Sign</td><td colspan="2">considered for Type B and Type C installations. Replace or retrofit existing incandescent or fluorescent sign. New fixture must use 8 watts or less including battery charger if applicable. Must meet State Fire Marshall codes.</td><td>$8.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="6">LED Reach-in Refrigerated Case Lighting (DLCTM Qualified Only)</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>$25.00 Per Door Vertical Lighting—- DLC Qualified</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Replace existing T12 or T8 fluorescent lamps and ballasts. Available for retrofits in existing completely removed fora retrofit project to qualify (wiring may be reused.)Spec sheet must be www.DesignLights.org.</td><td>$30.00 Per Door Vertical Lighting—- DLC Premium Qualified</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">included verifying DesignLights TM or DesignLights TM Premium listing. See</td><td>$3.00 Per Lamp Foot Horizontal Lighting-- DLC Qualified</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td>$4.00 Per Lamp Foot Horizontal Lighting—— DLC Premium Qualified</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Occupancy sensor controlling LED case lighting. Sensors in new refrigerated cases or installed in existing cases. LED must serve as the only source of light for the case. Incentive</td><td>$5.00 PerDoor</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">is per door. Sensor may control more than one door. Section A Subtotall</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Installed Equipment</td><td colspan="3">Specifications</td><td>Incentiveper Unit</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">LED Indoor HorticultureGrow Lighting</td><td rowspan="3">Air Conditioned Space</td><td rowspan="3">LED fixture must belisted on theDesignLights Consortium(DLC) Qualified Product List under Horticulture Lighting. See www.DesignLights.org. Space must use 100% artificial light for plant growth.</td><td><400W replacing ≥500W</td><td>$135.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>400Wto<700W replacing ≥ 1000w</td><td>$200.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><400W replacing ≥500W</td><td>$110.00</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Conditioning</td><td></td><td>400Wto<700W replacing≥100ow</td><td>$160.00</td><td>SectionB Subtotal</td><td>$</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# C.  Controls and Sensors  

<html><body><table><tr><td>InstalledEquipment</td><td>Specifications</td><td>Incentive per Unit</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Occupancy Sensors</td><td>Occupancy sensors installed to control singlefixtures or groups of fixtures.</td><td>$0.08 Per Watt Controlled</td><td>Controlled Watts</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Daylighting Sensors</td><td>Daylighting controlled fixtures.</td><td>$0.10 Per Watt Controlled</td><td>Controlled Watts</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>CombinedOccupancy and DaylightingSensors</td><td>FixturesControlled byboth occupancy and daylighting sensors.</td><td>$0.12 Per Watt Controlled</td><td>Controlled Watts</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>DLCNetworkedLighting Controls</td><td>Systems must be listed on the DLC Networked Lighting Controls Qualified Products List in order to qualify. See www.designlights.org for details. May not be combined with other "standalone" sensor rebates. High End Trim is required at 80% or lower. Daylighting control must be deployed where side and toplighting is available as defined in IECC 2018. Occupancy sensing controls must be configured in occupancy or vacancy mode with 20 minutes timeout or less.System must be commissioned to comply with the above requirements. Spec sheets for connected LED fixtures must be provided along with invoices and detailed plans to verify the controlled wattage.</td><td>$0.15 per Watt Controlled</td><td>Controlled Watts</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>

Networked Lighting Commissioning Agent:  I certify that the networked lighting control requirements listed above are met and that the system has been commissioned and proven to be working as designed.  

# Indoor Lighting Retrofit Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025  

. DLC / ENERGY STAR Custom Lighting  - $\$350$ per kW Reduction (Items not listed in above sections)  

IMPORTANT:  This section is for items not found in sections above ONLY, unless otherwise approved by Bright Energy Solutions staff.  All LED products must be ENERGY STAR certified or DesignLights Consortium approved to be considered for this incentive.  Approved products can be found at www.energystar.gov and www.designlights.org.  

For assistance and verification of incentives, please contact the utility.  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5">If not provided below, detailed calculations and assumptions must be attached with this application, and must be sufficient to verify the demand and energy reductions claimed. Attach additional supporting documents and specifications as necessary. Please describe, in detail, the EXISTING or BASELINE equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, ballast factor, etc.). T12 lighting systems are considered to be obsolete technology for linear lamp installations such as troffers, high bay and low bay lighting installations and</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">other linear T12 installations, as such the “baseline" for all T12 systems willbe that of an equivalent T8 system. Actual wattages can be used for T12HO and T12VHO fixtures Incandescent lamps less than 150 watts are considered to be obsolete technology and will no longer be considered in this application.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">Please describe, in detail, the PROPOsED equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">(A)</td></tr><tr><td>kWDemandofExistingEquipment kWDemand ofProposed Equipment KWDemandSaved(A-B)</td><td>(B) (C)</td><td>kW Saved (C )</td><td>Annual Hours of Operation (page 2) X</td><td>Annual kWh Saved</td></tr><tr><td>= KWDemandSaved(C)X$350 =</td><td></td><td>Total Incentive Section D-CustomLighting</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# ndoor Lighting Retrofit Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025  

# . Custom Lighting for Products Not Certified by DLC or ENERGY STAR —\$175 per kW Reduction  

IMPORTANT:  This section is for items not found in sections above ONLY, unless otherwise approved by Bright Energy Solutions staff.  All LED products NOT ENERGY STAR certified or DesignLights Consortium approved may be considered for this incentive.   
For assistance and verification of incentives, please contact the utility.  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="5">If not provided below, detailed calculations and assumptions must be attached with this application, and must be sufficient to verify the demand and energy reductions claimed. Attach additional supporting documents and specifications as necessary. Please describe, in detail, the EXISTING or BASELINE equipment (quantity, make, model, type, efficiency rating, wattage, ballast factor, etc.). T12 lighting systems are considered to be obsolete technology for linear lamp installations such as troffers, high bay and low bay lighting installations and</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">other linear T12 installations, as such the “baseline" for all T12 systems willbe that of an equivalent T8 system. Actual wattages can be used for T12HO and T12VHO fixtures Incandescent lamps less than 150 watts are considered to be obsolete technology and will no longer be considered in this application.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">=</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4">kW Demand of Existing Equipment kW Demand of Proposed Equipment KW Demand Saved (A-B) KWDemand Saved (C)X$175</td><td>(A)</td><td>kW Saved (C )</td><td>Annual Hours of Operation (page 2)</td><td>Annual kWh Saved</td></tr><tr><td>(B) (C)</td><td>X</td><td>=</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">= Total Incentive Section E—Custom Lighting</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Section ESubtotal</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">F. Installing Contractor Incentive--Paid Directly to Contractor ( (Self-Installed ProjectsDoNot Qualify)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Installing Contractor Bonus: For projects with Total Project Incentive of $250 or more. Limited to one Contractor Bonus for each customer location annually.</td></tr><tr><td>InstallingContractor Incentive</td><td>TotalProjectCustomerIncentive (Must be $250 or more.)</td><td>ContractorIncentive:$1oo</td><td>Incentive</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td>SectionFSubtotal</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td>QTY</td><td>IFREMOVEDEQUIPMENTISNOTLISTED,PLEASELISTIT BELOW. PLEASEINCLUDELAMPWATTAGESANDBALLAST</td><td>QTY</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">FluorescentT12—4ft. 1 lamp</td><td></td><td>DESCRIPTIONS.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"> Magnetic ballast</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2 lamp Electronic Ballast 3 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">4 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Fluorescent T8—4 ft. 1 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">3 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">4 lamp</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Fluorescent T12—8ft 60w Lamps 1 lamp Magnetic ballast</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2 lamp Electronic Ballast</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Fluorescent T12—8 ft75W Lamps 1 lamp Magnetic ballast</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2 lamp Electronic Ballast</td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">High Output Fluorescent T12HO-8 ft 1 lamp Magnetic ballast</td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2 lamp Electronic Ballast</td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">T5HO High Bay Fixture lamps per fixture</td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">T8 High Bay Fixture lamps per fixture</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">4' T8 Lamps</td><td>Metal Halide</td><td>50W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">8' T8 Lamps</td><td></td><td>70W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Incandescent Lamps Watts (Insert Wattage)</td><td></td><td>100W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Incandescent Lamps Watts (Insert Wattage)</td><td></td><td>150W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Mercury Vapor</td><td></td><td>175W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td>250W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td>320W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">High Pressure Sodium 250W</td><td></td><td>400W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">400W</td><td></td><td>750W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">1000W</td><td></td><td>1000W</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Incandescent Exit Sign</td><td></td><td>Fluorescent Exit Sign</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

# ndoor Lighting Retrofit Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Summary of Incentives</td></tr><tr><td>Section A:LED Technologies</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section B: Indoor Horticulture Grow Lights</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section C: Controls and Sensors</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section D: Custom Lighting—Energy Star Qualified or DLC Listed</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>SectionE:CustomLighting-NotEnergyStarQualified orDLCListed</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Total Project Incentive: Not to exceed 75% of total project cost, or 100% of product price if project is customer self-installed.</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section F: Contractor Incentive</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Total Project IncentivePlus Contractor Incentive</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Certifications and Signature</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">I hereby certify that:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">1.The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2. All installation is complete and the unit(s) is operational prior to submitting application;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the lastpageof this applicationform.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">stands that it is not allowed to receive more than one incentive from this program on any piece of equipment. The customer agrees to indemnify, defend, to the remoyal, disposal, installation or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, includ-</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Please sign and complete all information below.  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">CustomerSignature</td><td colspan="2">Print Name</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

# Attach a Copy of the Equipment Invoice  

Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

# Specification sheets  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td rowspan="2">Date Received: Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes No</td><td>Date Pre-lnspected:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ONO</td><td>Date Post-lnspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Incentive Approved:</td><td>Yes 口No</td><td>Amount $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Utility or Program Representative:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions for Bright Energy Solutions Business Incentives  

# ELIGIBILITY:  

Bright Energy Solutions incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, call your local utility listed on the cover page of this application.   
Commercial, industrial, and governmental customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in this Bright Energy Solutions® incentive program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed under a commercial or industrial rate class by The Utility. Excludes equipment for residential spaces such as apartments.   
Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs.  

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  

1. Incentive Offer:  Projects, including all required installation, must be completed by December 31 of the year indicated on this application form. A signed application and itemized invoices for materials and labor must be submitted to The Utility within 90 calendar days of project completion. Please keep a copy for your records.   
2. Proof of Purchase:  This application must have complete information and be submitted with invoices itemizing the new equipment purchased and labor costs. Invoices must indicate date of purchase, make, model and total project cost. OEM specification sheets, AHRI Certificates or DLC documents must also be provided where applicable and available.  

3. Compliance:  

a) All projects must comply with federal, state, and local code, licensing, and permit requirements. b) All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for incentives. Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of. c) Equipment must meet specification requirements and be purchased, installed and operating prior to submitting an incentive application. d) Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. e) All projects for which more than $\$20,000$ in incentive payments is sought must be approved by The Utility in writing prior to the commencement of the project. Receipt of pre-approval does not guarantee incentive payments will be made. All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer.   
4. Payment:  Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are made within 4-8 weeks. Incomplete applications will delay payments. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation for violations of program rules and procedures.   
5. Inspection:  The Utility may conduct an inspection of any installed projects. All projects exceeding $\$10,000$ of incentives will be inspected prior to incentive payment.   
6. Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities.   
7. Program Discretion: This program is subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program.   
8. Logo Use:  Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission.  

9. Disclaimers:  The Utility:  

a) does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs;   
b) will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives;   
c) does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work;   
d) is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project;   
e) is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken under the programs described in this application;   
f) does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program.  

# INCENTIVE LIMIT:  

 Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive an energy efficiency incentive of up to $\$100,000$ per customer, per calendar year. Payments for larger incentives may be allowed at the discretion of The Utility.   
 Total incentive will not exceed 75 percent of the project cost, including installation. If self-installed, incentives can be up to the equipment purchase price, but shall not exceed the Bright Energy Solutions incentives set by Missouri River Energy Services.  