# Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers  

A Cash Incentive Energy Efficiency Program brought to you by:  

# IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:  

Step 1: Determine Eligibility:  Pre-approval is required if the potential incentive is greater than \$20,000. Contact The Utility for pre-approval. See last page of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 2: Install Equipment. See last page of application for detailed Terms and Conditions.  

Step 3: Complete and Submit Application. A completed application and all required supporting documents must be received by The Utility within 90 days of installation. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application.  

Email the application and supporting documentation to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com  

OR  

Mail or fax the application and all supporting documentation to:  

Cavalier Municipal Utilities 301 Division Ave N PO Box 750 Cavalier, ND 58220  

Phone: (701) 265-8800  

Please note: Cavalier Municipal Utilities and its supplemental power supplier, Missouri River Energy Services, are offering this Bright Energy Solutions Program. Cavalier Municipal Utilities and Missouri River Energy Services together will be referred to as "The Utility" throughout this document.  

# Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers  

HAS THIS PROJECT BEEN PREAPPROVED?   YES   NO  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">Customer Information (PleasePrint)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Company Name</td><td colspan="2">Contact Name</td><td colspan="2">DateSubmitted</td></tr><tr><td>InstallationAddress</td><td colspan="3">[City City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">MailingAddress Phone</td><td colspan="2">Installation (Completion) Date</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">EmailAddress*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">*By providing your email address, you are granting The Utility permission to send emails regarding this project and/or updates on the incentive program. Municipal Utility Account Number BuildingUse-PleaseCheckOne</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">office Retail ConvenienceStore Warehouse Restaurant Lodging Manufacturing School:ElementarySecondary/HighSchoolCollege Healthcare: Clinic Hospital Other/Miscellaneous:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Facility Hours of Operation</td></tr><tr><td>Hours per Day</td><td colspan="2">Days per Week</td><td>Weeks per Year</td><td colspan="2">HoursperYear(hoursxdaysxweeks)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="2"></td><td></td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Vendor/ContractorInformation Company Name Contact Name</td><td colspan="4">Phone</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Address</td><td colspan="4">City State Zip Code</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Email Address*</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">*By providing your email address, you are granting The Utility permission to send emails regarding this project and/or updates on the incentive program.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="4">Payment Information</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Process payment to: Customer (listed above) Vendor or Contractor(listed above）AlternateRecipient If payment is to be made to an Alternate Recipient, please complete the remainder of this section:</td></tr><tr><td>Company Name</td><td>ContactName</td><td colspan="2">Phone</td></tr><tr><td>Address</td><td>City</td><td>State</td><td>Zip Code</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">(ONLY for new construction projects or when replacing an existing modulation or load/no-load controlled rotary screw air compressor)</td></tr><tr><td>New Equipment Type</td><td colspan="2">Specifications</td><td>Incentive/hp</td><td>Nominal Horsepower</td><td>Total Incentive</td></tr><tr><td>Variable Frequency Drive Rotary Vane or ScrewCompressor≤50 HP</td><td colspan="2">Only for new construction projects or when replacing an existing modulation or load/no-load controlled</td><td>$50 per HP</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">rotary screw compressor (with or without blowdown.) Larger compressors may qualify for an incentive under the Custom Program with preapproval. Please contact your local utility for details.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Subtotal Section A:$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">New Equipment Information Manufacturer: Model Installed:</td><td colspan="4">Serial NumberInstalled:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Replacing existing compressor?Yes No New construction project?Yes No</td><td colspan="4">Are other VFD compressors used in this system?Yes No</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Is new compressor water cooled? Yes No</td><td colspan="4">Is this compressor used primarily as a backup or redundant compressor? Yes No</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Removed Equipment Information Removed Equipment Manufacturer:</td><td colspan="4"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="4">Removed Equipment Model Number (If available):</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Is removed compressor a rotary screw compressor? Yes No Control Type? Modulation Load/No-Load</td><td colspan="4">Nominal Horsepower of Removed Compressor:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Is removed compressor water cooled? Yes No</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">PLEASEATTACHTHEFOLLOWINGREQUIREDDOCUMENTS:</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">1） Specification sheet and CAGI sheet for new air compressor. Invoice clearly showing proof of purchase including model numbers, date of installation, installation address, and total project cost.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">2)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Incentive is for a new VFD rotary vane or screw compressor replacing an existing rotary screw air compressor with modulation or load/no-load controls</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Adding a VFD to an existing compressor does not qualify.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Replacing an existing VFD compressor with a new VFD compressor does not qualify.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Air compressors purchased for backup or redundancy do not qualify.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Limited to one VFD compressor per compressed air system. Adding a VFD compressor to a system that already includes a VFD compressor does not qualify.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">Custom incentive with preapproval prior to the purchase of equipment. Please see your local Utility representative for details. Existing water cooled compressor units must be replaced by a new water cooled unit.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">details. Replaced equipment must be removed. If the replaced compressor remains connected to the air system, the customer must provide a signed letter</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$200/Drain $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Subtotal Section B: Used to remove condensate without wasting compressed air.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Manual drains, level operated mechanical drains, or solenoid drains are not eligible for incentives. The replacement drain must continuously measure the presence of condensate and purge it only when necessary and only long enough to prevent the unintentional purging of compressed air.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"> Mist Eliminators</td></tr><tr><td>Description</td><td>Manufacturer</td><td>Model</td><td>Total Compressor HP</td><td>Incentive/Unit</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>Mist Eliminators</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$6/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Mist Eliminators</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$6/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Mist Eliminators</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$6/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Subtotal Section C:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">The mist eliminator air filter must have an initial pressure drop of 1 psi or less. Must replace a standard coalescing fiter and must not be used as a back-up. Use in new construction or in a new air system also qualifies.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">D. Dew Point Demand Controls</td></tr><tr><td>Description</td><td>Manufacturer</td><td>Model</td><td>Total CFM</td><td>Incentive/Unit</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>Dew Point Demand Control</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$250/100 CFM $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Dew Point Demand Control</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$250/100 CFM</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>DewPointDemand Control</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$250/100 CFM Subtotal Section D:</td><td>$ $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Used with regenerative desiccant type dryers to control the regeneration process based on the actual air dew point instead of regenerating based on time alone. Must be applied to a desiccant air dryer.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6"></td></tr><tr><td>E. Cycling Refrigerated Dryers Description</td><td>Manufacturer</td><td>Model</td><td>Total CFM</td><td>Incentive/Unit</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>Cycling Refrigerated Dryer</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$75/100 CFM</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Cycling Refrigerated Dryer</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$75/100 CFM</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Cycling Refrigerated Dryer</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$75/100 CFM</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Subtotal Section E: $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Cycling refrigerated dryers turn on and off or vary their speed in response to demand as opposed to operating continuously. New dryers must be cycling or VFD controlled refrigerated dryers replacing non-cycling refrigerated air dryers. Use in new construction or in a new air system also qualifies.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="6">Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers 2025</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">F. Added Compressed Air Storage</td></tr><tr><td>Compressor Horsepower</td><td>Compressor,Full LoadACFM</td><td>Existing,Storage Gallons</td><td>Added Storage Total Storage Gallons Gallons</td><td>Incentive Per Compressor Horsepower</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$20/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Compressor ACFMx5 gal/ACFM =</td><td></td><td colspan="2">Minimum Required Gallons</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="4"></td><td>Subtotal Section F:</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Added or new construction storage to achieve 5 gal/ACFM storage capacity based on rated full-load actual CFM (ACFM) at actual operating pressure.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">G. Low-Pressure Blower Replacing Compressed Air Blow Off</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Low-Pressure Blower HP</td><td>Incentiveper</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Process Location/Description</td><td colspan="2"></td><td>Compressor HP</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2"></td><td>$2,000/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4"></td><td>$2,000/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Subtotal Section G: $</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Replacing the fixed compressed air blow off process on production equipment with a blower generated low pressure air system.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">H. Engineered or Air-Entraining Compressed Air Nozzles</td></tr><tr><td>Description</td><td>Size</td><td>SCFMAT80 PSI</td><td>Quantity</td><td>Incentive/ Unit</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>1/8 Inch</td><td>8=</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle $</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>3/16 Inch</td><td>≤19</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle $500/Nozzle $</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>1/4 Inch 5/16 Inch</td><td>≤33 ≤52</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>3/8 Inch</td><td>≤76</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>7/16 Inch</td><td>≤103</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Engineered Compressed Air Nozzles</td><td>1/2 Inch</td><td>≤135</td><td></td><td>$500/Nozzle Subtotal Section H: $</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Air jets and nozzles must have an SCFM rating at 80 psig less than or equal to those rated in the table above.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Incentives are based on replacing an open pipe/tube assembly with air jets/nozzles. All installationsmust meet OSHAstandards</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Compressed Air Incentive Application for Business Customers  

# I.  Compressed Air Controller—Pressure Flow Controller  

A compressor flow-controller is a precision regulator that helps maintain a constant pressure on a compressed air distribution system as compressed air flow fluctuates with demand.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Description</td><td>Size</td><td>Averagesystempressure before controller installation</td><td>Averagesystempressureaftercontroller installation (must be ≥5 psig lower)</td><td>Quantity of HP</td><td>Incentive/Unit</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>Compressed Air Controller</td><td>AlI</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$4.50/HP</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">Manufacturer: Model Installed:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="7">SubtotalSectionI:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Tobeeligibleforarebate Thecontrollermustenabletheheaderpressuretobeloweredby5psigormore.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# J.  Compressed Air Leak Survey (Performed by Missouri River Energy Services)  

<html><body><table><tr><td>The Compressed Air Leak Survey is to be done by a Missouri River Energy Services (MRES) technician utilizing ultrasonic leak detection equipment. Contact your local utility representative for details on the scope of work along with a cost quote for this service. Customer must repair all leaks identified where it is cost-feasible to do so. A minimum of 40% (based on calculated CFM loss) of the leaks must be</td></tr><tr><td>fixed in order for the project to qualify for the incentive. Following leak repairs, the customer must schedule a return visit by the MRES technician to verify leak repairs using ultrasonic leak detection equip-</td></tr><tr><td>ment. All leak tags must be left in place by the customer until repair verification is made by the MRES technician.</td></tr><tr><td>Leak repair verification must be completed and Bright Energy Solutions must receive this submitted application within 90 days of the leak survey date. The incentive is only available once per 12 month period per customer site.</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>only.</td></tr><tr><td>released by the Utility after customer payment to MRES is received in full.</td></tr><tr><td>Total Cost of Air System Leak Survey and Leak RepairVerification $ x 0.40 =$</td></tr><tr><td>Subtotal Section J (NOT TO EXCEED $5,000):|$</td></tr><tr><td>Additional RequiredInformation</td></tr><tr><td>PLEASEATTACHTHEFOLLOWINGREQUIREDDOCUMENTS: 1) A copy of the Air Leak Calculator Report from Missouri River Energy Services.</td></tr><tr><td>2) Invoices clearly showing the cost and date of services provided from the initial survey and the leak verification survey.</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Summary of Incentives</td></tr><tr><td>SectionA:VariableFrequencyRotaryVaneorScrewCompressor</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section B: No Loss Air Drains</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section C: Mist Eliminators</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section D: Dew Point Demand Controls</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section E: Cycling Refrigerated Dryers</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section F: Added Compressor Air Storage</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section G: Low-Pressure Blowers</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section H: Engineered Air Nozzles</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section I: Compressed Air Controller</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Section J: Compressed Air Leak Survey</td><td>$</td></tr><tr><td>Total Incentive:</td><td>I$</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Certifications and Signature</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">I hereby certify that:</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">1.The information contained in this application is accurate and complete;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">2. All installation is complete and the unit(s) is operational prior to submitting application;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">3. All rules of this incentive program have been followed;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">4. I have read and understand the terms and conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application, including those set forth on the last page of this application form.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">hold harmless and release The Utility from any claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising.from or relating to the removal, disposal, installation'or operation of any equipment or related materials in connection with the programs described in this application, includ- ing any incidental, special or consequential damages.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td rowspan="2">CustomerSignature</td><td colspan="2">PrintName</td></tr><tr><td>Title</td><td>Date</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Commercial BES Application Checklist  

Before submitting this application please complete and include all items listed below:  

# Complete application  

Customer information Vendor/Contractor information Equipment information Customer signature  

# Attach a Copy of the Equipment Invoice  

Equipment quantities Model numbers of equipment installed  

# Specification sheets  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Member Utility Use Only</td><td>Date Received:</td></tr><tr><td>Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Date Pre-Inspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Inspected:</td><td>Yes ON口</td><td>Date Post-Inspected:</td><td>Initials:</td></tr><tr><td>Incentive Approved:</td><td>Yes ONO S</td><td>Amount $</td><td>Date Approved:</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Terms and Conditions for Bright Energy Solutions Business Incentives  

# ELIGIBILITY:  

Bright Energy Solutions incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, call your local utility listed on the cover page of this application.   
Commercial, industrial, and governmental customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in this Bright Energy Solutions® incentive program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed under a commercial or industrial rate class by The Utility. Excludes equipment for residential spaces such as apartments.   
Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs.  

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  

1. Incentive Offer:  Projects, including all required installation, must be completed by December 31 of the year indicated on this application form. A signed application and itemized invoices for materials and labor must be submitted to The Utility within 90 calendar days of project completion. Please keep a copy for your records.   
2. Proof of Purchase:  This application must have complete information and be submitted with invoices itemizing the new equipment purchased and labor costs. Invoices must indicate date of purchase, make, model and total project cost. OEM specification sheets or DLC documents must also be provided where applicable and available.  

3. Compliance:  

a) All projects must comply with federal, state, and local code, licensing, and permit requirements. b) All equipment must be new or retrofitted with new components per the program specifications. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for incentives. Existing equipment must be removed and properly disposed of. c) Equipment must meet specification requirements and be purchased, installed and operating prior to submitting an incentive application. d) Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. e) All projects for which more than $\$20,000$ in incentive payments is sought must be approved by The Utility in writing prior to the commencement of the project. Receipt of pre-approval does not guarantee incentive payments will be made. All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer. 4. Payment:  Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are made within 4-8 weeks. Incomplete applications will delay payments. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation for violations of program rules and procedures.   
5. Inspection:  The Utility may conduct an inspection of any installed projects. All projects exceeding $\$10,000$ of incentives will be inspected prior to incentive payment.   
6. Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities.   
7. Program Discretion: This program is subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program.   
8. Logo Use:  Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission.  

9. Disclaimers:  The Utility:  

a) does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs;   
b) will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives;   
c) does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work;   
d) is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project;   
e) is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken under the programs described in this application;   
f) does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program.  

# INCENTIVE LIMIT:  

Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive an energy efficiency incentive of up to $\$100,000$ per customer, per calendar year. Payments for larger incentives may be allowed at the discretion of The Utility.   
• Total incentive will not exceed 75 percent of the project cost, including installation. If self-installed, incentives can be up to the equipment purchase price, but shall not exceed the Bright Energy Solutions incentives set by Missouri River Energy Services.  