# HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 152nd GENERAL ASSEMBLY  

HOUSE BILL NO. 11  

AN ACT TO AMEND TITLE 16 OF THE DELAWARE CODE RELATING TO COUNTY BUILDING CODES.  

# BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE:  

2 insertions as shown by underline as follows:   
3 § 7604. Solar-Ready Zone.   
4 (a) This section shall apply to new commercial buildings with a foundation footprint of 50,000 square feet or   
5 more.   
6 (b) A solar-ready zone means a section or sections of the roof or building overhang designated and reserved for the   
7 ture installation of solar photovoltaic or solar thermal system.   
8 (c) (1) A solar-ready zone shall be located on the roof of buildings that are five stories or less in height above   
9 grade plane, and are oriented between 110 degrees and 270 degrees of true north or have low-slope roofs. Solar ready zones   
10 shall comply with Sections CA103.2 through CA103.8 of the International Energy Conservation Code.   
11 (2) The following are exceptions to subsection (c)(1) of this section:   
12 a. A building with a permanently installed, on-site renewable energy system.   
13 b. A building with a solar-ready zone that is shaded for more than 70 percent of daylight hours annually.   
14 c. A building where the licensed design professional certifies that the incident solar radiation available to   
15 the building is not suitable for a solar-ready zone.   
16 d. A building where the licensed design professional certifies that the solar zone area required by Section   
17 CA103.3 of the International Energy Conservation Code cannot be met because of extensive rooftop equipment,   
18 skylights, vegetative roof areas, or other obstacles.   
19 (d) Construction documents shall indicate all of the following:   
20 (1) The solar-ready zone.   
21 (2) Pathways for outing of conduit piping from the solar-ready zone to the electrical service panel or service   
22 hot water system.   
23 (3) The structural design loads for roof dead load and roof live load.  

(e) Solar ready zones shall be free from obstructions, including pipes, vents, ducts, HVAC equipment, skylights, and roof-mounted equipment. (f) A collateral dead load of not less than 5 pounds per square foot (5 psf) shall be included in the gravity and lateral design calculations for the solar-ready zone. (g) The main electrical service panel shall have a reserved space to allow installation of a dual-pole circuit breaker for future solar electric installation and shall be labeled “For Future Solar Electric”. The reserved space shall be positioned at the end of the panel that is opposite from the panel supply conductor connections. (h) The permanent certificate, indicating the solar-ready zone and other requirements of this section, shall be posted near the electrical distribution panel, water heater, or other conspicuous location by the builder or registered design professional.  

Section 2. This Act applies to commercial buildings for which a building permit request has been submitted on or after January 1, 2025.  

# SYNOPSIS  

This Act requires new commercial buildings with a foundation footprint of 50,000 square feet or greater to mee certain requirements to ensure that their roof is able to support solar energy infrastructure.  