# Energy Storage Target 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-12-01 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-11-18 19:19:37 
 ***state** : Michigan 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Regulatory Policy 
 ***program type*** : Energy Storage Target 
 ***sector*** : Investor-Owned Utility, Retail Supplier 
 ***end date** : 2029-12-31 05:00:00 
 ## Summary : 
 With the enactment of Public Act 235, Michigan adopted an energy storage
target of 2,500 MW by December 31, 2029.

Electric providers are responsible for a share of this target based on their
proportional share of annual average in-state peak load, calculated over five
years. Electric providers are to demonstrate compliance with the target in
their integrated resource plans. Alternative electric suppliers can contract
with electric utilities to supply their share of the target.  

Electric providers that contract with third-party providers for energy storage
are eligible for a financial incentive. The incentive is the product of
contract payments in that year multiplied by the electric provider’s pre-tax
weighted average cost of permanent capital comprised of long-term debt
obligations and equity of the electric provider’s total capital structure as
determined by the Michigan Public Service Commission’s final order in the
electric provider’s most recent general rate case.

A proceeding implementing the energy storage requirement is underway in
[Docket No. U-21571](https://mi-psc.my.site.com/s/case/5008y000009ueIVAAY/in-
the-matter-on-the-commissions-own-motion-to-clarify-sections-101-and-103-of-
public-act-235-of-2023-and-to-conduct-a-study-on-longduration-energy-storage-
systems-and-multiday-energy-storage-systems).

 
 