# < Demand Response  

# Home Battery Storage System Incentives  

Receive an up-front incentive and lower carbon emissions by enrolling your home battery storage system in demand response.  

# Home Battery Benefits  

Home batteries can help you store clean enery generated bya home solar system or simply provide backup energy incase you need it.  

We offer an up-front incentive to help offset the cost of installing a home battery system.  

To receive it, you must installan eligible battery system using an approved manufacture, and you must enrol that system in ou demand response program. Funding is limited and provided by the New Hampshire Clean Energy Fund.  

# Incentive Amounts  

The incentive amount you will receive is based on the capacity of your battery. For each eligible kWh you willreceive $\$230$ uptoa maximumof $\$3,000$  

This incentive will be sent in the form of a check once we have confirmation that your battery has received permission to operate from our interconnection group and has been accepted into the Demand Response program.  

You must have purchased a qualifying battery after October 1, 2022, to receive this incentive and you are required to participate in Demand Response events for a minimum of three years. There are no annual performance payments for this program.  

# Qualified battery models  

In order to qualify for the enrollment incentive, your battery system must be from an approved manufacturer.  

We are only accepting enrollment for Enphase eligible models:  

IQ Battery 3 and 3T IQ Battery 10 and 10T ·IQ Battery 5P  

Existing solar customers must have single phase service Enphase solar inverters to be eligible.  

# Demand Response events  

Approximately 40 Demand Response events will occur June through September between 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. During the events, your battery will be discharged by the manufacturer to a level no lower than $20\%$ of capacity. If there is an extreme weather event in the forecast we will not draw energy from your battery.  

# Receiving Your Incentive  

Start by installing an eligible battery  

Contact an installer and work with them to purchase an eligible battery.  