# Energy Storage Solutions Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-12-19 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-12-19 17:23:25 
 ***state** : Connecticut 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2030-12-31 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Connecticut Green Bank 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Upfront:  
Residential: $250/kWh for first 10 MW, $212.50/kWh for next 15 MW, $162.50/kWh
for final 25 MW  
Residential Underserved Community: $450/kWh  
Residential Low-Income: $600/kWh  
Residential Grid Edge Adder: +50%  
Small Commercial: $200/kWh  
Large Commercial: $175/kWh  
Industrial: $100/kWh  
C&I; Priority Customer Adder: +25%  
  
Performance:  
First 5 years: $200/summer, $25/winter  
Final 5 years: $115/summer, $15/winter

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Upfront: up to 50% of project cost. Residential incentives also have a maximum
of $16,000  
Performance: $225/year in first five years of participation, $130/year in last
five years of participation

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Residential: no specified limit, but incentive maximum is $16,000  
Small Commercial: less than 200 kW  
Large Commercial: 200 - 500 kW  
Industrial: at least 500 kW

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : see program website

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : see program website

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Lithium-ion 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Low Income Residential, Low Income Residential, Commercial, Industrial, Commercial, Industrial, Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Low Income Residential, Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 250.0 $/kWh 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The MW approved through this program will be counted towards the
state's[energy storage
targets](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/22422)._**  

The Energy Storage Solutions Program provides incentives to residential and
commercial customers to install energy storage systems. The program is
administered by the Connecticut Green Bank, though the incentives are provided
through the state's utilities,
[Eversource](https://www.eversource.com/content/residential/save-money-
energy/clean-energy-options/home-battery-storage) and [United
Illuminating](https://www.uinet.com/w/energy-storage-
solutions?p_l_back_url=%2Fsearch%3Fq%3Dstorage). The program will run for nine
years, from 2022 through 2030.

The program has a cap of 580 MW, spread across three tranches. Tranche 1 is
open for the first three years of the program -- 2022 through 2024. The
Tranche 1 capacity for the Commercial incentives reached capacity in March
2023, so Tranche 2 has opened early; as of December 2023, around 35 MW of
Tranche 2 have been approved.  

_Program Deployment Targets_

| Tranche 1 (2022-2024)  
|  Tranche 2 (2025-2027)  
|  Tranche 3 (2028-2030)  
| Full Program  
---|---|---|---|---  
**Residential  
** | 50 MW | 100 MW | 140 MW  
| 290 MW  
**Commercial and Industrial**  
| 50 MW | 100 MW | 140 MW | 290 MW  
**Total  
** | 100 MW | 200 MW | 280 MW | 580 MW  
  
**  
**

**Upfront Incentives**  

The program offers upfront incentives for purchasing and installing an energy
storage system, up to 50% of project cost. Residential incentives use a
declining block structure; as more systems are approved, the incentive value
decreases. Systems that service underserved communities or low-income
customers can receive a larger incentive, and the incentive is not subject to
the declining block structure. There is also an adder for systems that serve
customers located on grid edge.  

_Residential Upfront Incentives (Tranche 1)_  

Installed Capacity  
| Baseline ($/kWh)  
| Underserved Community ($/kWh)  
| Low-Income ($/kWh)  
| Grid Edge Adder  
---|---|---|---|---  
First 10 MW  
| $250 | $450 | $600 | +50%  
Next 15 MW  
| $212.50 | $450 | $600 | +50%  
  
Final 25 MW  
| $162.50 | $450 | $600 | +50%  
  
  

Commercial incentives stay flat regardless of enrolled MW, but the incentive
value will depend on the customer type: small commercial, large commercial, or
industrial. There is also an adder for systems that service priority
customers, i.e. customers located on grid edge, critical facilities, small
businesses, and customers replacing a fossil fuel generator.  

_Commercial Upfront Incentives (Tranche 1 and 2)_  

Installed Capacity  
| Small Commercial ($/kWh)  
| Large Commercial ($/kWh)  
| Industrial ($/kWh)  
| Priority Customer Adder  
---|---|---|---|---  
Tranche 1  
| $250 | $175 | $100 | +25%  
Tranche 2  
| $250 | $175 | $100 | +25%  
  
  
  

**Performance Incentives**

The program also offers a per-kWh performance incentive. Under the performance
program, the utilities can dispatch a system's stored energy during
appropriate events in both the summer and the winter. In return, the customer
will receive an annual lump sum. The performance incentive is available on a
10-year contract. Customers can receive a maximum of $225/year in the first
five years and a maximum of $130/year in the last five years.  

_Performance-Based Incentives_

Years 1 - 5 | Years 6 - 10  
---|---  
Summer ($/kW)  
| Winter ($/kW)  
| Summer ($/kW)  
| Winter ($/kW)  
$200  
| $25  
| $115  
| $15

 
 