# C-PACE: Garden State Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy 
 ***created_at*** : 2023-12-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2023-12-21 18:36:24 
 ***state** : New Jersey 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : PACE Financing 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Schools, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential 
 ***additional technologies*** : Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure, Stormwater Management System, Flood Resistant Construction Improvement, Hurricane Resistant Construction Improvement 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: In 2010, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which has
authority over mortgage underwriters Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac,[directed](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Statement-
on-Certain-Energy-Retrofit-Loan-Programs.aspx) these enterprises against
purchasing mortgages of homes with a PACE lien due to its senior status above
a mortgage. Most residential PACE activity subsided following this directive;
however, some residential PACE programs are now operating with loan loss
reserve funds, appropriate disclosures, or other protections meant to address
FHFA's concerns. Commercial PACE programs were not directly affected by FHFA’s
actions, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not underwrite commercial mortgages.
Visit [PACENation](https://www.pacenation.org/) for more information about
PACE financing and a comprehensive list of all PACE programs across the
country.**_

  

Signed into law in 2021, P.L. 2021, c. 201 established the Garden State
Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy program. The bill directs the New
Jersey Economic Development Authority (NJEDA) to create the C-PACE program.
Municipalities will may join the Program by adopting an opt-in ordinance and
entering into an agreement with NJEDA. Counties may also establish a local
C-PACE program pursuant to a local C-PACE program ordinance to facilitate the
financing of C-PACE projects throughout municipalities in their jurisdiction.

Through this program, property owners can acquire funding for energy
efficiency improvements on eligible properties. Funding is secured through a
special assessment lien on the improved real property. C-PACE can be used for
new construction, renovation and standalone energy projects. Financing is
provided by private capital providers who meet the program’s criteria. The
terms of a financing will not be longer than the forecast life of the
improvements. In order to acquire financing, all tax payments, charges, and
assessments with respect to the property shall be current, the legal or
beneficial owners of the property shall not be subject to any bankruptcy
proceeding, and the subject property shall not be the subject of a bankruptcy
proceeding. The principal amount of the C-PACE assessment, when combined with
mortgage loans and other lien obligations on a property shall not exceed 90
percent of the appraised value of the property after including the value
created by the C-PACE project. The maximum duration of a C-PACE assessment,
shall not exceed the weighted average useful life of the improvements in the
C-PACE project or 30 years, whichever is less. The amount of the C-PACE
assessment for a property shall be a specific amount, and the terms of
repayment of direct financing shall be solely determined and negotiated
between a property owner and capital provider. A property owner seeking a
C-PACE assessment shall receive written consent of the existing mortgage
holders on the property prior to the closing of the financing.  

  

 
 