# RESIDENTIALEVCHARGER-MULTI-FAMILY  

RebateAmount: $\$1,000$  

■ $\$500$ : Enhanced rebate fo income-qulifying customers · To qualify for the aditional rebate, more than $15\%$ of the units your EV charger seves must have a gross income lessthan the limits listed on the following Documentation page.   
■ $\$500$ : Enhanced rebate for publicly available chargers ■ To qualify for the additional rebate for publicly available chargers, the charger must be made available to the public at least from 9am to 5pm during the week.  

Have the following items ready:  

·Your Burlington Electric Department account number. It is printed on your monthly bill.   
■Photos or scans of your receipts for the charger and charger installation.   
■ Verification (screenshot or other proof) that the charger is visible on PlugShare or other EV charger station listing service.   
■ Information required to fill out a W9 form.  

Terms &Conditions  

· Recipient must be a Burlington Electric Department customer.   
· EV charger must be wired with a house meter that is billed separately, to the property owner or association, from meters for residential units.   
· Property must be a multi-family unit dwelling, which includes multiple separate housing units for residential inhabitants contained within one building or several buildings within one cc · Limit 10 rebates per multi-family unit dwelling.   
· Aditional rebates may be available with prior approval.   
· EV Chargers must be installed by a licensed electrician and the owner/contractor/electrician is responsible for all applicable permits.   
· Dedicated parking spots with signage should be available for each EV charger port.   
· The price of charging will not exceed $\$0.30$ per kwh or $\$3.40$ per hour.   
· By accepting this incentive, the recipient agrees to maintain the installed EV charger in a manner that will ensure the intended access to this equipment.   
■ Burlington Electric Department limits rebates to $75\%$ of installed cost.   
· This offer is valid through December 31, 2025.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to inspect installtion and/or verify purchase.   
· Burlington Electric Department reserves the right to modify or end this offer at any time.   
· Please be aware that if your rebates from BED total more than $\$600$ in a calendar year you may be required to complete and submit a W9 form. A W9 form will be provided in this rek  