# Illinois Compiled Statutes  

# Back to Article Listing  Public Acts  Search  Guide  Disclaimer  Printer-Friendly Version  

# Information maintained by the Legislative Reference Bureau  

Updating the database of the Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) is an ongoing process. Recent laws may not yet be included in the ILCS database, but they are found on this site as Public Acts soon after they become law. For information concerning the relationship between statutes and Public Acts, refer to the Guide.  

Because the statute database is maintained primarily for legislative drafting purposes, statutory changes are sometimes included in the statute database before they take effect. If the source note at the end of a Section of the statutes includes a Public Act that has not yet taken effect, the version of the law that is currently in effect may have already been removed from the database and you should refer to that Public Act to see the changes made to the current law.  

# SCHOOLS (105 ILCS 5/) School Code.  

Search Tips  

(105 ILCS 5/Art. 29 heading) ARTICLE 29. TRANSPORTATION (105 ILCS 5/29-1) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-1)  

Sec. 29-1. Free transportation of pupils. School boards may provide free transportation for pupils, as prescribed in Section 10-22.22. (Source: Laws 1961, p. 31.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-2) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-2)  

Sec. 29-2. Transportation of pupils less than one and one-half miles from school. School boards may provide transportation for pupils living less than one and one-half miles as measured by the customary route of travel from the school attended and may make a charge for such transportation in an amount of not to exceed the cost thereof, which shall include a reasonable allowance for depreciation of the vehicles so used. (Source: Laws 1961, p. 31.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3)  

Sec. 29-3. Transportation in school districts. School boards of community consolidated districts, community unit districts, consolidated districts, consolidated high school districts, optional elementary unit districts, combined high school - unit districts, combined school districts if the combined district includes any district which was previously required to provide transportation, and any newly created elementary or high school districts resulting from a high school - unit conversion, a unit to dual conversion, or a multi-unit conversion if the newly created district includes any area that was previously required to provide transportation shall provide free transportation for pupils residing at a distance of one and one-half miles or more from any school to which they are assigned for attendance maintained within the district, except for those pupils for whom the school board shall certify to the State Board of Education that adequate transportation for the public is available.  

For the purpose of this Act $11/2$ miles distance shall be from the exit of the property where the pupil resides to the point where pupils are normally unloaded at the school attended; such distance shall be measured by determining the shortest distance on normally traveled roads or streets.  

Such school board may comply with the provisions of this Section by providing free transportation for pupils to and from an assigned school and a pick-up point located not more than one and one-half miles from the home of each pupil assigned to such point.  

For the purposes of this Act "adequate transportation for the public" shall be assumed to exist for such pupils as can reach school by walking, one way, along normally traveled roads or streets less than $11/2$ miles irrespective of the distance the pupil is transported by public transportation.  

In addition to the other requirements of this Section, each school board may provide free transportation for any pupil residing within $^{11/2}$ miles from the school attended where conditions are such that walking, either to or from the school to which a pupil is assigned for attendance or to or from a pick-up point or bus stop, constitutes a serious hazard to the safety of the pupil due to either (i) vehicular traffic or rail crossings or (ii) a course or pattern of criminal activity, as defined in Section 10 of the Illinois Streetgang Terrorism Omnibus Prevention Act. Such transportation shall not be provided if adequate transportation for the public is available.  

The determination as to what constitutes a serious safety hazard shall be made by the school board, in accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Illinois Department of Transportation regarding vehicular traffic or rail crossings or in accordance with guidelines regarding a course or pattern of criminal activity, as determined by the local law enforcement agency, in consultation with the State Superintendent of Education. A school board, on written petition of the parent or guardian of a pupil for whom adequate transportation for the public is alleged not to exist because the pupil is required to walk along normally traveled roads or streets where walking is alleged to constitute a serious safety hazard due to either (i) vehicular traffic or rail crossings or (ii) a course or pattern of criminal activity, or who is required to walk between the pupil's home and assigned school or between the pupil's home or assigned school and a pick-up point or bus stop along roads or streets where walking is alleged to constitute a serious safety hazard due to either (i) vehicular traffic or rail crossings or (ii) a course or pattern of criminal activity, shall conduct a study and make findings, which the Department of Transportation, with respect to vehicular traffic or rail crossings, or the State Board of Education, in consultation with the local law enforcement agency, with respect to a course or pattern of criminal activity, shall review and approve or disapprove as provided in this Section, to determine whether a serious safety hazard exists as alleged in the petition. The Department of Transportation shall review the findings of the school board concerning vehicular traffic or rail crossings and shall approve or disapprove the school board's determination that a serious safety hazard exists within 30 days after the school board submits its findings to the Department of Transportation. The State Board of Education, in consultation with the local law enforcement agency, shall review the findings of the school board concerning a course or pattern of criminal activity and shall approve or disapprove the school board's determination that a serious safety hazard exists within 30 days after the school board submits its findings to the State Board. The school board shall annually review the conditions and determine whether or not the hazardous conditions remain unchanged. The State Superintendent of Education may request that the Illinois Department of Transportation or the local law enforcement agency verify that the conditions have not changed. No action shall lie against the school board, the State Superintendent of Education, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the State Board of Education, or a local law enforcement agency for decisions made in accordance with this Section. The provisions of the Administrative Review Law and all amendments and modifications thereof and the rules adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to and govern all proceedings instituted for the judicial review of final administrative decisions of the Department of Transportation, the State Board of Education, or a local law enforcement agency under this Section. At all points, except when otherwise mentioned in this Section, the local enforcement agency is authorized to determine what constitutes a course or pattern of criminal activity.  

The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 100th General Assembly do not apply to a school district organized under Article 34 of this Code.  

(Source: P.A. 100-1142, eff. 11-28-18.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3.1) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.1)  

Sec. 29-3.1. Transportation to and from school sponsored activities  

The school board of any school district that provides transportation for pupils to and from the school attended may provide transportation for pupils to and from any school sponsored activities in which pupils of the district participate, whether during the school year or not, and may make a charge for such transportation in an amount not to exceed the cost thereof, which may include a reasonable allowance for depreciation of the vehicles so used. The school board may provide transportation for pupils on bona fide field trips in Illinois or adjacent states.  

(Source: P.A. 85-1148; 85-1389; 85-1440.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3.2) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.2) Sec. 29-3.2. Transportation to and from activities of private schools  

The school board of any school district that provides transportation for pupils to and from the public schools may, by agreement with the officials of a non-public school, provide transportation, at times when the buses or other conveyances are not needed for public school student transportation, for students attending the non-public school to and from activities sponsored by that school. Such a school board providing transportation under this Section shall make a charge for furnishing that transportation in an amount not less than the cost thereof, including a reasonable allowance for the depreciation of each vehicle used in that transportation. (Source: Laws 1967, p. 1228.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3.2a) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.2a)  

Sec. 29-3.2a. Transportation to and from summer school sessions.) The school board of any school district that provides transportation for pupils to and from the school attended may provide transportation for pupils to and from school during that period of the calendar year not embraced with the regular school term in which courses are taught for any pupils of the district who might participate, and may make a charge for such transportation in an amount not to exceed the cost thereof, which may include a reasonable allowance for depreciation of the vehicles so used; provided no charge shall be made for transportation of the types of children defined in Sections 14-1.02 through 14- 1.07 of this Act and school boards providing such transportation shall be reimbursed pursuant to Section 14-13.01 of this Act. (Source: P.A. 79-203.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3.3) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.3)  

Sec. 29-3.3. Transportation for pupils of other districts.  

The school board of any school district that provides transportation for pupils to and from the public schools may, pursuant to agreement with the school board of any other school district, provide transportation for pupils of that district to and from activities sponsored by any public school in that district, at times when buses or other conveyances used in such transportation are not needed for transporting pupils of the school district so providing that transportation. In providing such transportation for pupils of another district, the school board shall charge an amount not less than the cost of furnishing that transportation, including a reasonable allowance for depreciation on each vehicle so used.  

(Source: Laws 1967, p. 3480.)  

# (105 ILCS 5/29-3.4) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.4)  

Sec. 29-3.4. The school board of any school district may provide transportation services to children participating in or adults who are attending organized recreational, cultural, educational, and public service programs. The school board shall make a charge for such transportation in an amount equal to the cost thereof, which shall include a reasonable allowance for insurance premiums and depreciation of the vehicles so used. This Section shall not apply if such transportation services are offered by any public or private mass transit system engaged in the business of transporting people within the county or counties in which the school district is located in whole or in part and if such transit system has received or will receive funds provided by the "Mass Transportation Emergency Operating Assistance Act of $1973"$ , adopted by the 78th General Assembly, or which receives or will receive funds from any other enactment of the General Assembly or from any unit of local government. (Source: P.A. 79-506.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-3.5) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-3.5)  

Sec. 29-3.5. Other use of school buses. The school board of any school district may provide transportation services to any non-profit organization for recreational, cultural, educational, and public service programs operated by the organization for the benefit of its members. Transportation shall be provided to non-profit organizations during times when the vehicles used are not needed for the transportation of students between school and their homes. The school board shall make a charge for such transportation in an amount equal to the cost thereof, which shall include a reasonable allowance for depreciation of the vehicles used. The school board is authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements covering the use of transportation by non-profit organizations. The school board shall add to the charges made for the use of transportation a reasonable amount to cover any increase in insurance premiums incident to the use of transportation by the organization. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to terminate, either permanently or temporarily, the status of the vehicles used by the organization as school buses.  

Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit any school district to provide transportation services in competition with any mass transit carrier. (Source: P.A. 79-656.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-4) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-4)  

Sec. 29-4. Pupils attending a charter school or nonpublic school. The school board of any school district that provides any school bus or conveyance for transporting pupils to and from the public schools shall afford transportation, without cost, for children who attend a charter school or any school other than a public school, who reside at least 1 1/2 miles from the school attended, and who reside on or along the highway constituting the regular route of such public school bus or conveyance, such transportation to extend from some point on the regular route nearest or most easily accessible to their homes to and from the school attended, or to or from a point on such regular route which is nearest or most easily accessible to the school attended by such children. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent high school districts from transporting public or non-public elementary school pupils on a regular route where deemed appropriate. The elementary district in which such pupils reside shall enter into a contractual agreement with the high school district providing the service, make payments accordingly, and make claims to the State in the amount of such contractual payments. The person in charge of any charter school or school other than a public school shall certify on a form to be provided by the State Superintendent of Education, the names and addresses of pupils transported and when such pupils were in attendance at the school. If any such children reside within $11/2$ miles from the school attended, the school board shall afford such transportation to such children on the same basis as it provides transportation for its own pupils residing within that distance from the school attended.  

Nothing herein shall be construed to preclude a school district from operating separate regular bus routes, subject to the limitations of this Section, for the benefit of children who attend a charter school or any school other than a public school where the operation of such routes is safer, more economical and more efficient than if such school district were precluded from operating separate regular bus routes.  

If a school district is required by this Section to afford transportation without cost for any child who is not a resident of the district, the school district providing such transportation is entitled to reimbursement from the school district in which the child resides for the cost of furnishing that transportation, including a reasonable allowance for depreciation on each vehicle so used. The school district where the child resides shall reimburse the district providing the transportation for such costs, by the 10th of each month or on such less frequent schedule as may be agreed to by the 2 school districts. (Source: P.A. 91-407, eff. 8-3-99.)  

# (105 ILCS 5/29-5) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-5)  

Sec. 29-5. Reimbursement by State for transportation. Any school district or State-authorized charter school, maintaining a school, transporting resident pupils to another school district's vocational program, offered through a joint agreement approved by the State Board of Education, as provided in Section 10- 22.22 or transporting its resident pupils to a school which meets the standards for recognition as established by the State Board of Education which provides transportation meeting the standards of safety, comfort, convenience, efficiency and operation prescribed by the State Board of Education for resident pupils in kindergarten or any of grades 1 through 12 who: (a) reside at least 1 1/2 miles as measured by the customary route of travel, from the school attended; or (b) reside in areas where conditions are such that walking constitutes a hazard to the safety of the child when determined under Section 29-3; and (c) are transported to the school attended from pick-up points at the beginning of the school day and back again at the close of the school day or transported to and from their assigned attendance centers during the school day shall be reimbursed by the State as hereinafter provided in this Section.  

The State will pay the prorated allowable cost of transporting eligible pupils less the real equalized assessed valuation as computed under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Section 18-8.15 in a dual school district maintaining secondary grades 9 to 12 inclusive times a qualifying rate of . $.05\%$ ; in elementary school districts maintaining grades K to 8 times a qualifying rate of . $.06\%$ ; and in unit districts maintaining grades K to 12, including partial elementary unit districts formed pursuant to Article 11E, times a qualifying rate of $.07\%$ . For a State-authorized charter school, the State shall pay the prorated allowable cost of transporting eligible pupils less a real equalized assessed valuation calculated pursuant to this Section times a qualifying rate. For purposes of calculating the real equalized assessed valuation for a State-authorized charter school whose resident district is not a school district organized under Article 34 of this Code, the State Board of Education shall calculate the average of the number of students in grades kindergarten through 12 reported as enrolled in the charter school in the State Board's Student Information System on October 1 and March 1 of the immediately preceding school year. That value shall be divided by the average of the number of students in grades kindergarten through 12 reported as enrolled in the charter school's resident district on October 1 and March 1 of the immediately preceding school year. That proportion shall be multiplied by the real equalized assessed valuation as computed under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Section 18-8.15 for each State-authorized charter school's applicable resident district. A State-authorized charter school whose resident district is organized under Article 34 of this Code shall have a real equalized assessed valuation equal to the real equalized assessed valuation of its resident district as computed under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Section 18-8.15. A State-authorized charter school's qualifying rate shall be the same as the rate that applies to the charter school's resident district.  

To be eligible to receive reimbursement in excess of $4/5$ of the cost to transport eligible pupils, a school district or partial elementary unit district formed pursuant to Article 11E shall have a Transportation Fund tax rate of at least . $.12\%$ . The Transportation Fund tax rate for a partial elementary unit district formed pursuant Article 11E shall be the combined elementary and high school rates pursuant to paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Section 18-8.15.  

If a school district or partial elementary unit district formed pursuant to  

Article 11E does not have a . $.12\%$ Transportation Fund tax rate, the amount of its claim in excess of 4/5 of the cost of transporting pupils shall be reduced by the sum arrived at by subtracting the Transportation Fund tax rate from . $12\%$ and multiplying that amount by the district's real equalized assessed valuation as computed under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Section 18-8.15, provided that in no case shall said reduction result in reimbursement of less than $4/5$ of the cost to transport eligible pupils. No such adjustment may be applied to a claim filed by a State-authorized charter school.  

Subject to the calculation of equalized assessed valuation, an adjustment for an insufficient tax rate, and the use of a qualifying rate as provided in this Section, a State-authorized charter school may make a claim for reimbursement by the State that is calculated in the same manner as a school district.  

The minimum amount to be received by a district is $\$16$ times the number of eligible pupils transported.  

When calculating the reimbursement for transportation costs, the State Board of Education may not deduct the number of pupils enrolled in early education programs from the number of pupils eligible for reimbursement if the pupils enrolled in the early education programs are transported at the same time as other eligible pupils.  

Any such district transporting resident pupils during the school day to an area vocational school or another school district's vocational program more than 1 1/2 miles from the school attended, as provided in Sections 10-22.20a and 10-22.22, shall be reimbursed by the State for $4/5$ of the cost of transporting eligible pupils.  

School day means that period of time during which the pupil is required to be in attendance for instructional purposes.  

If a pupil is at a location within the school district other than his residence for child care purposes at the time for transportation to school, that location may be considered for purposes of determining the $^{11/2}$ miles from the school attended.  

Claims for reimbursement that include children who attend any school other than a public school shall show the number of such children transported.  

Claims for reimbursement under this Section shall not be paid for the transportation of pupils for whom transportation costs are claimed for payment under other Sections of this Act.  

The allowable direct cost of transporting pupils for regular, vocational, and special education pupil transportation shall be limited to the sum of the cost of physical examinations required for employment as a school bus driver; the salaries of full-time or part-time drivers and school bus maintenance personnel; employee benefits excluding Illinois municipal retirement payments, social security payments, unemployment insurance payments and workers' compensation insurance premiums; expenditures to independent carriers who operate school buses; payments to other school districts for pupil transportation services; pre-approved contractual expenditures for computerized bus scheduling; expenditures for housing assistance and homeless prevention under Sections 1-17 and 1-18 of the Education for Homeless Children Act that are not in excess of the school district's actual costs for providing transportation services and are not otherwise claimed in another State or federal grant that permits those costs to a parent, a legal guardian, any other person who enrolled a pupil, or a homeless assistance agency that is part of the federal McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act's continuum of care for the area in which the district is located; the cost of gasoline, oil, tires, and other supplies necessary for the operation of school buses; the cost of converting buses' gasoline engines to more fuel efficient engines or to engines which use alternative energy sources; the cost of travel to meetings and workshops conducted by the regional superintendent or the State Superintendent of Education pursuant to the standards established by the Secretary of State under Section 6-106 of the Illinois Vehicle Code to improve the driving skills of school bus drivers; the cost of maintenance of school buses including parts and materials used; expenditures for leasing transportation vehicles, except interest and service charges; the cost of insurance and licenses for transportation vehicles; expenditures for the rental of transportation equipment; plus a depreciation allowance of $20\%$ for 5 years for school buses and vehicles approved for transporting pupils to and from school and a depreciation allowance of $10\%$ for 10 years for other transportation equipment so used. Each school year, if a school district has made expenditures to the Regional Transportation Authority or any of its service boards, a mass transit district, or an urban transportation district under an intergovernmental agreement with the district to provide for the transportation of pupils and if the public transit carrier received direct payment for services or passes from a school district within its service area during the 2000-2001 school year, then the allowable direct cost of transporting pupils for regular, vocational, and special education pupil transportation shall also include the expenditures that the district has made to the public transit carrier. In addition to the above allowable costs, school districts shall also claim all transportation supervisory salary costs, including Illinois municipal retirement payments, and all transportation related building and building maintenance costs without limitation.  

Special education allowable costs shall also include expenditures for the salaries of attendants or aides for that portion of the time they assist special education pupils while in transit and expenditures for parents and public carriers for transporting special education pupils when pre-approved by the State Superintendent of Education.  

Indirect costs shall be included in the reimbursement claim for districts which own and operate their own school buses. Such indirect costs shall include administrative costs, or any costs attributable to transporting pupils from their attendance centers to another school building for instructional purposes. No school district which owns and operates its own school buses may claim reimbursement for indirect costs which exceed $5\%$ of the total allowable direct costs for pupil transportation.  

The State Board of Education shall prescribe uniform regulations for determining the above standards and shall prescribe forms of cost accounting and standards of determining reasonable depreciation. Such depreciation shall include the cost of equipping school buses with the safety features required by law or by the rules, regulations and standards promulgated by the State Board of Education, and the Department of Transportation for the safety and construction of school buses provided, however, any equipment cost reimbursed by the Department of Transportation for equipping school buses with such safety equipment shall be deducted from the allowable cost in the computation of reimbursement under this Section in the same percentage as the cost of the equipment is depreciated.  

On or before August 15, annually, the chief school administrator for the district shall certify to the State Superintendent of Education the district's claim for reimbursement for the school year ending on June 30 next preceding. The State Superintendent of Education shall check and approve the claims and prepare the vouchers showing the amounts due for district reimbursement claims. Each fiscal year, the State Superintendent of Education shall prepare and transmit the first 3 vouchers to the Comptroller on the 30th day of September, December and March, respectively, and the final voucher, no later than June 20.  

If the amount appropriated for transportation reimbursement is insufficient to fund total claims for any fiscal year, the State Board of Education shall reduce each school district's allowable costs and flat grant amount proportionately to make total adjusted claims equal the total amount appropriated.  

For purposes of calculating claims for reimbursement under this Section for any school year beginning July 1, 2016, the equalized assessed valuation for a school district or partial elementary unit district formed pursuant to Article 11E used to compute reimbursement shall be the real equalized assessed valuation as computed under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Section 18-8.15.  

All reimbursements received from the State shall be deposited into the district's transportation fund or into the fund from which the allowable expenditures were made.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any school district receiving a payment under this Section or under Section 14-7.02, 14-7.02b, or 14-13.01 of this Code may classify all or a portion of the funds that it receives in a particular fiscal year or from State aid pursuant to Section 18-8.15 of this Code as funds received in connection with any funding program for which it is entitled to receive funds from the State in that fiscal year (including, without limitation, any funding program referenced in this Section), regardless of the source or timing of the receipt. The district may not classify more funds as funds received in connection with the funding program than the district is entitled to receive in that fiscal year for that program. Any classification by a district must be made by a resolution of its board of education. The resolution must identify the amount of any payments or general State aid to be classified under this paragraph and must specify the funding program to which the funds are to be treated as received in connection therewith. This resolution is controlling as to the classification of funds referenced therein. A certified copy of the resolution must be sent to the State Superintendent of Education. The resolution shall still take effect even though a copy of the resolution has not been sent to the State Superintendent of Education in a timely manner. No classification under this paragraph by a district shall affect the total amount or timing of money the district is entitled to receive under this Code. No classification under this paragraph by a district shall in any way relieve the district from or affect any requirements that otherwise would apply with respect to that funding program, including any accounting of funds by source, reporting expenditures by original source and purpose, reporting requirements, or requirements of providing services.  

Any school district with a population of not more than 500,000 must deposit all funds received under this Article into the transportation fund and use those funds for the provision of transportation services. (Source: P.A. 102-539, eff. 8-20-21; 102-813, eff. 5-13-22; 103-588, eff. 1-1-25.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-5.2) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-5.2) Sec. 29-5.2. Reimbursement of transportation.  

(a) Reimbursement. A custodian of a qualifying pupil shall be entitled to reimbursement in accordance with procedures established by the State Board of Education for qualified transportation expenses paid by such custodian during the school year.  

(b) Definitions. As used in this Section:  

(1) "Qualifying pupil" means an individual referred o in subsection (c), as well as an individual who: (A) is a resident of the State of Illinois; and (B) is under the age of 21 at the close of the school year for which reimbursement is sought; and (C) during the school year for which reimbursement is sought was a full-time pupil enrolled in a kindergarten through 12th grade educational program at a school which was a distance of $11/2$ miles or more from the residence of such pupil; and (D) did not live within $11/2$ miles from the school in which the pupil was enrolled or have access to transportation provided entirely at public expense to and from that school and a point within $11/2$ miles of the pupil's residence, measured in a manner consistent with Section 29-3. (2) "Qualified transportation expenses" means costs reasonably incurred by the custodian to transport, for the purposes of attending regularly scheduled day-time classes, a qualifying pupil between such qualifying pupil's residence and the school at which such qualifying pupil is enrolled, as limited in subsection (e) of this Section, and shall include automobile expenses at the standard mileage rate allowed by the United States Internal Revenue Service as reimbursement for business transportation expense, as well as payments to mass transit carriers, private carriers, and contractual fees for transportation. (3) "School" means a public or nonpublic elementary or secondary school in Illinois, attendance at which satisfies the requirements of Section 26-1. (4) One and one-half miles distance. For the purposes of this Section, $11/2$ miles distance shall be measured in a manner consistent with Section 29-3. (5) Custodian. The term "custodian" shall mean, with respect to a qualifying pupil, an Illinois resident who is the parent, or parents, or legal guardian of such qualifying pupil.  

(c) An individual, resident of the State of Illinois, who is under the age of 21 at the close of the school year for which reimbursement is sought and who, during that school year, was a full time pupil enrolled in a kindergarten through 12th grade educational program at a school which was within $11/2$ miles of the pupil's residence, measured in a manner consistent with Section 29-3, is a "qualifying pupil" within the meaning of this Section if (i) such pupil attends public school in a school district organized under Article 34 of this Code and must walk or otherwise travel along a safe passage route, as designated by the school board, to reach school or return home or (ii) such pupil did not have access to transportation provided entirely at public expense to and from that school and the pupil's residence and conditions were such that walking would have constituted a serious hazard to the safety of the pupil due to vehicular traffic. The determination of what constitutes a serious safety hazard within the meaning of this subsection shall in each case be made by the Department of Transportation in accordance with guidelines which the Department, in consultation with the State Superintendent of Education, shall promulgate. Each custodian intending to file an application for reimbursement under subsection (d) for expenditures incurred or to be incurred with respect to a pupil asserted to be a qualified pupil as an individual referred to in this subsection shall first file with the appropriate regional superintendent, on forms provided by the State Board of Education, a request for a determination that a serious safety hazard within the meaning of this subsection (c) exists with respect to such pupil. Custodians shall file such forms with the appropriate regional superintendents not later than February 1 of the school year for which reimbursement will be sought for transmittal by the regional superintendents to the Department of Transportation not later than February 15; except that any custodian who previously received a determination that a serious safety hazard exists need not resubmit such a request for 4 years but instead may certify on their application for reimbursement to the State Board of Education referred to in subsection (d), that the conditions found to be hazardous, as previously determined by the Department, remain unchanged. The Department shall make its determination on all requests so transmitted to it within 30 days, and shall thereupon forward notice of each determination which it has made to the appropriate regional superintendent for immediate transmittal to the custodian affected thereby. The determination of the Department relative to what constitutes a serious safety hazard within the meaning of subsection (c) with respect to any pupil shall be deemed an "administrative decision" as defined in Section 3-101 of the Administrative Review Law; and the Administrative Review Law and all amendments and modifications thereof and rules adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to and govern all proceedings instituted for the judicial review of final administrative decisions of the Department of Transportation under this subsection.  

(d) Request for reimbursement. A custodian, including a custodian for a pupil asserted to be a qualified pupil as an individual referred to in subsection (c), who applies in accordance with procedures established by the State Board of Education shall be reimbursed in accordance with the dollar limits set out in this Section. Such procedures shall require application no later than June 30 of each year, documentation as to eligibility, and adequate evidence of expenditures; except that for reimbursement sought pursuant to subsection (c) for the 1985- 1986 school year, such procedures shall require application within 21 days after the determination of the Department of Transportation with respect to that school year is transmitted by the regional superintendent to the affected custodian. In the absence of contemporaneous records, an affidavit by the custodian may be accepted as evidence of an expenditure. If the amount appropriated for such reimbursement for any year is less than the amount due each custodian, it shall be apportioned on the basis of the requests approved. Regional Superintendents shall be reimbursed for such costs of administering the program, including costs incurred in administering the provisions of subsection (c), as the State Board of Education determines are reasonable and necessary.  

(e) Dollar limit on amount of reimbursement. Reimbursement to custodians for transportation expenses incurred during the 1985-1986 school year, payable in fiscal year 1987, shall be equal to the lesser of (1) the actual qualified transportation expenses, or (2) $\$50$ per pupil. Reimbursement to custodians for transportation expenses incurred during the 1986-1987 school year, payable in fiscal year 1988, shall be equal to the lesser of (1) the actual qualified transportation expenses, or (2) $\$100$ per pupil. For reimbursements of qualified transportation expenses incurred in 1987-1988 and thereafter, the amount of reimbursement shall not exceed the prior year's State reimbursement per pupil for transporting pupils as required by Section 29-3 and other provisions of this Article.  

(f) Rules and regulations. The State Board of Education shall adopt rules to implement this Section.  

(g) The provisions of this amendatory Act of 1986 shall apply according to their terms to the entire 1985-1986 school year, including any portion of that school year which elapses prior to the effective date of this amendatory Act, and to each subsequent school year.  

(h) The chief administrative officer of each school shall notify custodians of qualifying pupils that reimbursements are available. Notification shall occur by the first Monday in November of the school year for which reimbursement is available.  

(Source: P.A. 98-1057, eff. 1-1-15.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-6) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-6)  

Sec. 29-6. Inter-district contracts for transportation.  

Any school district, including any non-high school district, may contract at actual cost with 1 or more school districts for the transportation of pupils to and from the school attended. (Source: P.A. 78-1245.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-6.1) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-6.1)  

Sec. 29-6.1. Contracts for transportation. Subject to Section 6-106.11 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, school boards may enter into contracts for any period of time deemed appropriate by those school boards for transportation of pupils to and from school; however, no contract, inclusive of any proposed renewals, may exceed 10 years. All contracts for a period of time greater than 5 years that do not include the use of electric vehicles for pupil transportation shall include a termination option after 5 years. Nothing in this Section prohibits contract opener clauses for any purpose from being included in the contract. A contract for pupil transportation that utilizes a significant percentage of electric vehicles may be entered into by a school board for up to 15 years if the contract relies on capital or infrastructure purchases or improvements that cannot reasonably be justified in a shorter-term contract.  

(Source: P.A. 103-430, eff. 1-1-24.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-6.3)  

Sec. 29-6.3. Transportation to and from specified interscholastic or schoolsponsored activities.  

(a) Any school district transporting students in grade 12 or below for an interscholastic, interscholastic athletic, or school-sponsored, noncurriculumrelated activity that (i) does not require student participation as part of the educational services of the district and (ii) is not associated with the students' regular class-for-credit schedule or required 5 clock hours of instruction under Section 10-19.05 shall transport the students only in a school bus, a vehicle manufactured to transport not more than 10 persons, including the driver, or a multifunction school-activity bus manufactured to transport not more than 15 persons, including the driver.  

(a-5) A student in any of grades 9 through 12 may be transported in a multifunction school activity bus (MFSAB) as defined in Section 1-148.3a-5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code for any curriculum-related activity except for transportation on regular bus routes from home to school or from school to home, subject to the following conditions:  

(i) A MFSAB may not be used to transport students under this Section unless the driver holds a valid school bus driver permit. (ii) The use of a MFSAB under this Section is subject  

to the requirements of Sections 6-106.11, 6-106.12, 12-707.01, 13-101, and 13- 109 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.  

(b) Any school district furnishing transportation for students under the authority of this Section shall insure against any loss or liability of the district resulting from the maintenance, operation, or use of the vehicle.  

(c) Vehicles used to transport students under this Section may claim a depreciation allowance of $20\%$ over 5 years as provided in Section 29-5 of this Code. (Source: P.A. 101-12, eff. 7-1-19.)  

# (105 ILCS 5/29-6.4)  

Sec. 29-6.4. Non-contract transportation; bids; reimbursement. A school board of a school district that provides transportation of its pupils to and from school on buses that are owned by the district that are operated by drivers who are employed by the district shall, if it receives a timely request from an interested private school bus contractor that the district provide that transportation under contract, solicit sealed bids for that purpose. A district or special education cooperative is not required to respond to such a request more than once every 2 years. A request shall not be considered timely if it is made more than 24 months or less than 3 months before the expiration of the collective bargaining or other agreement that is in effect at the time the request is made and that governs the terms and conditions of employment of the school bus drivers employed by the district. All requests shall be made in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the school board of the district at the administrative offices or any school of the district. At the conclusion of the bidding process, the school board shall publicly announce the district's fully allocated costs of providing transportation of its pupils to and from school under its present system and thereupon may (i) elect to enter into a contract as provided in Section 29-6.1 with the lowest responsible bidder for transportation of the district's pupils to and from school or (ii) elect to continue providing transportation of its pupils to and from school under its present system. In the event the school board elects to continue providing transportation of the district's pupils to and from school under its present system even though the district's fully allocated costs of doing so exceed the amount of the lowest responsible bid received by the school board for transportation of the district's pupils to and from school, the school board shall publicly announce at a regularly scheduled meeting of the board held within 30 days after making its election to continue providing pupil transportation under its present system (i) the fully allocated costs of providing transportation of the district's pupils to and from school under its present system, and (ii) the amount of each of the sealed bids submitted to the school board, identifying which of the sealed bid amounts was the lowest responsible bid.  

As used in this Section the term "fully allocated costs" includes both the fixed and variable direct costs of the labor, capital, and material resources that are used by the school district exclusively for purposes of providing transportation of the district's pupils to and from school plus that portion of the district's shared costs as is fairly allocable to the products, services, and facilities necessary to provide transportation of the district's pupils to and from school. Direct costs of labor, capital, and material resources used exclusively to provide pupil transportation include the wages, payroll costs, and associated fringe benefits of school bus drivers, mechanics, and any supervisory or administrative personnel whose services relate exclusively to pupil transportation personnel or services, fuel, lubricants, tires, tubes, related material costs incurred in providing pupil transportation, depreciation costs associated with school buses and other vehicles, including spare vehicles, used to provide pupil transportation, and costs of facilities and equipment maintained exclusively to service, garage, or park vehicles used for pupil transportation purposes. "Shared costs" means the aggregate cost of the labor, capital, and material resources that are used in common by the district for a multiplicity of purposes, including the purpose of providing transportation of the district's pupils to and from school. The costs of the management, administration, and underlying infrastructure that support a multiplicity of services provided by the school district (including pupil transportation services) constitute shared costs within the meaning of this Section, and to the extent they are fairly allocable to pupil transportation services they are included within the term fully allocated costs as used in this Section. The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules setting forth the manner in which a district's fully allocated costs of providing transportation of its pupils to and from school under a non-contractual system shall be determined and computed for purposes of this Section. However, those rules shall be consistent with the provisions of this paragraph and shall follow recognized principles of fully allocated costing analysis in the transit industry, including generally accepted methods of identifying and estimating the principal cost elements of maintaining and operating a pupil transportation system.  

Any school district, including any non-high school district, which provides transportation for pupils shall insure against any loss or liability of such district, its agents or employees, resulting from or incident to the ownership, maintenance or use of any school bus. Such insurance shall be carried only in companies duly licensed and authorized to write such coverage in this State and in compliance with the provisions of Section 12-707 of "The Illinois Vehicle Code", approved September 29, 1969, as now or hereafter amended. (Source: P.A. 78-310.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-15) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-15)  

Sec. 29-15. Subject to the provisions of Section 10-22.8 of this Act, school districts, which own buses or other vehicular equipment for the transportation of pupils to or from school within such district, may sell or lease such buses or equipment to a Mass Transit District organized under the Local Mass Transit District Act or to an Urban Transportation District organized under the Urban Transportation District Act. Such districts may contract with a Mass Transit District or an Urban Transportation District for the transportation of pupils to and from the schools of such districts at a consideration to be determined by negotiation between the parties. Such contracts shall otherwise be subject to the provisions of this Article. (Source: P.A. 77-1492.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-16) (from Ch. 122, par. 29-16)  

Sec. 29-16. The school board of any school district which owns buses or other vehicular equipment for the transportation of pupils may rent such buses or equipment to the county board of any county in which it is situated to provide public transportation services pursuant to the "Downstate Public Transportation Act". The school board may rent such buses and equipment to the county board only for use during times when such buses or equipment are not needed for transporting pupils of the school district. A school board renting school buses or other vehicular equipment under this Section shall make a charge for furnishing such buses or other vehicular equipment in an amount not less than the cost thereof, including a reasonable allowance for the depreciation of each vehicle used.  

This amendatory Act is not a limitation upon the contractual and associational powers granted by Section 10 of Article VII of the Constitution. (Source: P.A. 78-1109.)  

(105 ILCS 5/29-17) Sec. 29-17. (Repealed). (Source: P.A. 85-1010. Repealed by P.A. 94-1105, eff. 6-1-07; 95-496, eff. 8-28-07.) (105 ILCS 5/29-18) Sec. 29-18. (Repealed). (Source: P.A. 90-756, eff. 8-14-98. Repealed by P.A. 94-1105, eff. 6-1-07.) (105 ILCS 5/29-20) Sec. 29-20. (Repealed). (Source: P.A. 98-907, eff. 8-15-14. Repealed internally, eff. 1-1-16.)  

# Top  