# Community Solar Energy Sovereignty Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-03-07 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-03-07 14:20:38 
 ***state** : Illinois 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Nonprofit, Schools, Federal Government 
 ***budget*** : $8.5 Million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Awards range from $50,000 to $1 million

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $1 million

 
 ## Summary : 
 On March 6, 2024, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
announced the Community Solar Energy Sovereignty Grant Program. The program
supports community-based organizations and technical service providers in low-
income and historically disadvantaged communities to plan, develop and execute
community solar projects. Grantees will be selected through a competitive
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) process. Applications will be accepted
until July 1, 2024 at 5:00 PM.

The goal of this grant program is to provide upfront seed capital funding to
overcome barriers to project development caused by lack of capital in
historically disadvantaged communities. The program prioritizes funding for
community solar projects that are located in and provide community benefits to
environmental justice or Restore Reinvest Renew (R3) communities.
Environmental justice and R3 communities are areas where residents have
historically been excluded from economic opportunities, including
opportunities in the energy sector, and areas that experience high levels of
pollution.

Grant funding may be used to support a variety of pre-development activities
to benefit historically disadvantaged communities, including early-stage
project planning, project team organization, site identification, procurement
and contracting, securing financing, customer outreach, site assessments, and
more. Funds may also be used to support the development of cooperative or
community ownership models that allocate benefits to communities and support
long-term governance, management, and maintenance of community solar projects.

 
 