# Tennessee C-PACER Financing 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-01-05 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-10 18:43:45 
 ***state** : Tennessee 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : PACE Financing 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Residential, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : TENNESSEE PACE 
 ***Terms*** : The amount of the assessment plus any existing indebtedness on the property
may not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the fair market value of the
property

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: In 2010, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which has
authority over mortgage underwriters Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac,[directed](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Statement-
on-Certain-Energy-Retrofit-Loan-Programs.aspx) these enterprises against
purchasing mortgages of homes with a PACE lien due to its senior status above
a mortgage. Most residential PACE activity subsided following this directive;
however, some residential PACE programs are now operating with loan loss
reserve funds, appropriate disclosures, or other protections meant to address
FHFA's concerns. Commercial PACE programs were not directly affected by FHFA’s
actions, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not underwrite commercial mortgages.
Visit [PACENation](https://www.pacenation.org/) for more information about
PACE financing and a comprehensive list of all PACE programs across the
country._**

****

**  
**

Property-Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing effectively allows property
owners to borrow money to pay for energy improvements. The amount borrowed is
typically repaid via a special assessment on the property over a period of
years.[ H.B. 667](https://legiscan.com/TN/text/HB0667/2021) established
Tennessee's commercial property assessed clean energy and storm resiliency
(C-PACER) programs. This legislation allows jurisdictions to voluntarily
implement programs aimed at financing energy efficiency and resiliency
improvements for owners of agricultural, commercial, industrial, and
multifamily residential properties. Qualifying improvements and projects must:  

  1. Decrease energy consumption or demand through the use of efficiency technologies
  2. Support the production of clean, renewable energy  

  3. Decrease water consumption or demand and address safe drinking water through the use of efficiency technologies
  4. Allow for the reduction or elimination of lead from water that may be used for drinking or cooking; or
  5. Increase water or waste water resilience

Tennessee's program distinguishes itself from other similar initiatives by
emphasizing resiliency improvement opportunities for property owners.
Financing is available for both new and existing buildings. However,
residential property consisting of four or fewer dwelling units does not
qualify for financing under the C-PACER program. Additionally, the legislation
states that the period of the amount of the assessment must not exceed the
weighted average of the useful life of the qualified project that is the basis
for the assessment.

  

Not all counties or cities have PACE programs. Consult your local government
to determine whether yours does.  

  

 
 