# C-PACE: Efficiency Maine 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-01-21 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-01-21 17:19:37 
 ***state** : Maine 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : PACE Financing 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2021-06-01 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Efficiency Maine Trust 
 ***Terms*** : Application Fee: $1,000

 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: In 2010, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which has
authority over mortgage underwriters Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac,[directed](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Statement-
on-Certain-Energy-Retrofit-Loan-Programs.aspx) these enterprises against
purchasing mortgages of homes with a PACE lien due to its senior status above
a mortgage. Most residential PACE activity subsided following this directive;
however, some residential PACE programs are now operating with loan loss
reserve funds, appropriate disclosures, or other protections meant to address
FHFA's concerns. Commercial PACE programs were not directly affected by FHFA’s
actions, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not underwrite commercial mortgages.
Visit [PACENation](https://www.pacenation.org/) for more information about
PACE financing, and for a comprehensive list of all PACE programs across the
country.**_

Property-Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing effectively allows property
owners to borrow money to pay for energy improvements. The amount borrowed is
typically repaid via a special assessment on the property over a period of
years. Maine has authorized certain local governments to establish such
programs, as described below.  

In June 2021, the Maine State Legislature enacted [L.D.
340](https://legislature.maine.gov/legis/bills/getPDF.asp?paper=SP0147&item=1&snum=130)
_,_ establishing a commercial property assessed clean energy program.__ This
legislation allows owners of commercial property to access financing for
energy efficiency and clean energy improvements on their buildings and repay
their investment over time. Municipalities that wish to participate in the
C-PACE Program must adopt a C-PACE Ordinance within their jurisdiction.
Financing for commercial property owners is exclusively available within
communities that have adopted the necessary ordinances. Certain written
notices, consent and acknowledgements must be conveyed before a project may be
approved for a C-PACE Loan. The C-PACE lien remains on the property until the
financed amount is fully repaid. To view participating municipalities, click
[here](https://www.efficiencymaine.com/c-pace-participating-municipalities/).  

**Eligibility**

  * Commercial property located in participating community
  * Current on all property taxes and charges
  * Contain at least one Energy Savings Improvement
  * Qualifying improvements must be new and permanently affixed to the Qualifying Property  

 __

_  
_

_  
_

 
 