# RENEWABLE ENERGY NET METERING RATE SCHEDULE "RENM-I"  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Mississippi Public Service Commission Schedule No. 65</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td>PAGE 1of3</td><td>EFFECTIVEDATE March16,2023</td><td>DATEOFVERSIONSUPERSEDED Original</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# LOW-TO-MODERATE INCENTIVE PROGRAM  

# Applicability  

A one-time $\$3,000.00$ cash incentive is available to any retail residential customer qualifying as low-to-moderate income (“LMI”) and currently taking service or that has applied to take service under the Company’s Renewable Energy Net Metering (“RENM-2”) Rate Schedule. In order to receive the Mississippi Distributed Generation Rule (“MDGR”) LMI incentive, the qualifying customer shall: (i) complete a Mississippi Power-approved energy audit and provide the Residential Energy Audit Rebate Qualification Form to MPC and (ii) provide to the Company proof of installation of the renewable Distributed Generator Facility in accordance with the Mississippi Distributed Generator Interconnection Rule (“MDGIR”). Additionally, the renewable Distributed Generator Facility purchased by the customer must have a nameplate capacity of at least 4 kW DC and shall not generate more than $110\%$ of the customer’s prior year annual peak demand (average kW during 15-minute period of greatest use).  

# Availability  

LMI incentives shall be available on a first-come, first-served basis and subject to the annual budgetary restrictions described below for years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026 and 2027. No incentives will be available beyond 2027. LMI incentives are only available for renewable Distributed Generator Facilities installed on or after the Effective Date of this rate schedule.  

# Payment  

The applicant must provide sufficient proof of installation of the DGF in order to receive the LMI incentive under this rate schedule. Customers shall receive the applicable incentive amount as a check via U.S. Mail following the Company’s inspection and approval of the installation of the applicable renewable Distributed Generator Facility.  

In lieu of receiving the payment directly, Customers may assign the LMI incentive to a solar installer, contractor, or vendor by making such an election in the Customer’s interconnection application to the Company. If the applicant assigns its LMI Incentive directly to the Distributed Energy Generator Facility installer or contractor, the applicant will not directly receive any partial or full payment of the LMI Incentive.  

# RENEWABLE ENERGY NET METERING RATE SCHEDULE "RENM-I"  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Mississippi Public Service Commission Schedule No. 65</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td>PAGE 2of3</td><td>EFFECTIVEDATE March16,2023</td><td>DATEOFVERSIONSUPERSEDED Original</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# BATTERY STORAGE INCENTIVE PROGRAM  

# Applicability  

A one-time $\$2,000.00$ cash incentive is available to any retail residential customer currently taking service or that has applied to take service under the Company’s Renewable Energy Net Metering (“RENM-2”) Rate Schedule that has not already applied for or received a Low-to-Moderate Incentive under this rate schedule. In order to participate in the Battery Storage Incentive Program, qualifying customers must first: (i) conduct a Mississippi Power-approved Energy Efficiency audit and provide the Residential Energy Audit Rebate Qualification Form to MPC; (ii) enroll in one of any available Battery Storage Demand Response Program, as contemplated in Commission Rule 29.107.1; and (iii) certify that any such Battery Energy Storage System purchased as part of this incentive program will comply with Mississippi Power’s Battery Storage Demand Response Program. If no Battery Storage Demand Response Program exists at the time of application, customer shall be automatically enrolled in such program once approved by the Commission. Existing Net Metering Program participants requesting to receive a Battery Incentive shall complete a new Interconnection Application and Agreement.  

# Availability  

Incentives shall be available on a first-come, first-served basis and subject to any annual budgetary restrictions described below for years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026 and 2027. No incentives will be available beyond 2027. Battery Storage Incentives are only available for Battery Energy Storage Systems installed on or after the Effective Date of this rate schedule.  

# Battery Requirements  

Applicants who are electing to receive the Battery Storage Incentive must provide evidence as part of their application that the residential Battery Energy Storage System is UL 1741 Certified and designed to be operated in parallel with an electric power system.  

# Payment  

The  applicant must provide sufficient proof of installation in order to receive the Battery Storage Incentive  under  this  rate  schedule.  Customers shall receive the applicable incentive amount as a check via U.S. Mail following the Company’s inspection and approval of the installation of the applicable renewable Distributed Generator Facility.  

In lieu of receiving the payment directly, Customers may assign the incentive to a solar installer, contractor, or vendor by making such an election in the Customer’s interconnection application to the Company. If the applicant assigns its Battery Storage Incentive directly to the Distributed Energy  Generator Facility installer or contractor, the applicant will not directly receive any partial or full payment of the Battery Storage Incentive.  

# RENEWABLE ENERGY NET METERING RATE SCHEDULE "RENM-I"  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="3">Mississippi Public Service Commission Schedule No. 65</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td>PAGE 3of3</td><td>EFFECTIVEDATE March16,2023</td><td>DATEOFVERSIONSUPERSEDED Original</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# INCENTIVE BUDGET  

The total annual budget for all incentives actually paid under this rate schedule is equal to $\$4$ million. The total annual budget for the Low-to-Moderate Incentive Program is equal to $\$3$ million. The total annual budget for the Battery Storage Incentive Program is equal to $\$1$ million. The annual budgets do not roll over to subsequent years and are forfeited if not fully utilized. Funds available in one budget may not be transferred for use in another incentive budget. Both annual budgets commence in 2023 and shall only be available for calendar years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026 and 2027.  

# GENERAL  

Service under this rate is subject to Rules and Regulations approved or prescribed by the Mississippi Public Service Commission, particularly those Special Rules and Regulations governing the application of this rate.  