# Marin Clean Energy - Feed-In Tariff Plus 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-05-24 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-05-24 14:03:04 
 ***state** : California 
 **implementing sector***: Local 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Feed-in Tariff 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Federal Government, Agricultural 
 ***administrator*** : Marin Clean Energy 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Renewable Energy Systems: $60 per MWh, 20-year term  
Energy Storage: $9 per kW-mo

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Renewable Energy Systems: 1 MW-AC - 5 MW-AC  
Energy Storage: 180% of the installed capacity of the renewable energy system
with 4-hours of storage

 
 ***Duration*** : 20 years

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : All renewable energy systems must utilize a fuel source meeting the
eligibility criteria expressed in the CEC’s most current edition of the RPS
Eligibility guidebook, and must be paired with energy storage.

 
 ***Ownership of Renewable Energy Credits*** : Marin Clean Energy

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Anaerobic Digestion, Biomass, Fuel Cells using Renewable Fuels, Geothermal Electric, Hydroelectric (Small), Landfill Gas, Municipal Solid Waste, Solar Photovoltaics, Solar Thermal Electric, Tidal, Wave, Wind (All) 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Federal Government, Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Federal Government, Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Federal Government, Agricultural 
 ***Parameters***: The System offers minimum of 1000.0 kW-AC 
 
 ## Summary : 
 Marin Clean Energy (MCE), a Community Choice Aggregator, provides an incentive
for its customers to install renewable energy systems through the Feed-In
Tariff (FIT) Plus Program. MCE will pay for all energy, environmental
attributes, capacity, and if applicable, storage-related services and
attributes delivered by the system at a fixed rate based on metered energy
quantities multiplied by the applicable contract price for the delivery term.

The contract price is scheduled to step down over time as the installed
capacity of all participating systems increases. As of May 2024 there are 10.8
MW remaining on the 5th of 6 steps, with an energy price of $60 per MWh. All
systems must be paired with energy storage with a capacity equal to at least
180% of the AC inverter nameplate of the system. Storage must be of 4 hour
duration. See program website for complete details.

 
 