# EZ Permit: Electric Vehicle Charger 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-05-24 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-05 15:14:12 
 ***state** : Pennsylvania 
 **implementing sector***: Local 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Green Building Incentive 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-07-20 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : City of Philadelphia Department of Licenses and Inspection 
 ***Expedited Permitting Process*** : EZ Permit is allowed instead of separate electrical and building permits.

 
 ## Summary : 
 The City of Philadelphia allows simplified permitting for certain Electric
Vehicle Charging Station installations ("[EZ
Permits](https://www.phila.gov/services/permits-violations-licenses/apply-for-
a-permit/building-and-repair-permits/get-an-electrical-permit/)"). Qualifying
EV Chargers can be permitted without submission of electrical plans or a
separate building permit. All projects must meet 2017 National electric code,
and are subject to additional requirements as listed in the
[application](https://www.phila.gov/media/20220720130633/PB_020_F-EZ-
Electrical-Vehicle-Charger-Permit-Standard-updated.pdf).  

Qualifying installations require:

  * EV Chargers to be the accessory to a 1- or 2-family dwelling
  * Installations must be pedestal mounted **except** installations on private property may be wall mounted.
  * Zoning approval for off-street parking must be included if the installation is on private property.   

  * For installations in a public right-of-way, approval must be included from the Department of Streets and Art Commission, and is subject to additional accessibility conditions.   

Locations in Special Flood Hazard Areas, or properties in the Philadelphia
Register of Historic Places may not make use of this simplified permitting.  

 
 