# \$3404. Determination of public policy; state wind energy generation goals  

1. Encouragement of wind energy-related development. It is the policy of the State in furtherance of the goals established in subsection 2 (./35- A/title35-Asec3404.html), to encourage the attraction of appropriately sited development related to wind energy, including any aditional transmission and other energy infrastructure needed to transport additional offshore wind energy to market, consistent with all state environmental standards; the permitting and financing of wind energy projects; and the siting, permitting financing and construction of wind energyresearch and manufacturing facilities.  

[PL 2009, c. 615, Pt. A, §3 (AMD).]  

2. State wind eergyenratin goal. heState's goal fr win energydevelpment iproximate feeral waters isfr at least 0megawatts f installed capacity by December 31, 2040.  

Beginning January 1, 2025 and every 2 years thereafter, the office may reevaluate and increase the goal established by this subsection and report that goal to the joint standing committee of the Legislaturehaving jurisdiction over energyand utilities matters  

[PL 2023, c. 481, §3 (RP).] [PL 2023, c. 481, §3 (RP).] [PL 2023, c. 481, §3 (RP).] [PL 2023, c. 481, §3 (RPR).]  

3. Wind energy development; impacts to fisheries. If, in reviewing a proposed commercial lease for a wind energy development for any purpose other thanscientireearchortehloicaldevlpmentlcatdinferal wates witltmaagement area thUitdtateepatmet f t Interior, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management determines that the wind energy development would have a significant adverse impact on fisheries, the State shall request that the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management work to minimize that impact.  

For the purposes of this subsection,"wind energy development has the same meaning as in section 3451 subsection 11(/35-A/title35-Asec345html) and "lobster management area 1" means the area defined by rule by the Department of Marine Resources.  

[PL 2021, c. 407, §1 (NEW).]   
SECTION HISTORY   
PL 2005, c. 646, §4 (NEW). PL 2007, c. 661, Pt. A, §6 (RPR). PL 2009, c. 615, Pt. A, §§3, 4 (AMD). PL 2021, c. 407, §1 (AMD). PL 2023, c. 481, §3 (AMD).  