# Commercial Charger Rebate Program General Terms & Conditions  

Duke Energy Florida, LLC (“Duke Energy”) makes available certain rebates and incentives through the Commercial Charger Rebate Program (“Program”). These general terms and conditions (the “Terms and Conditions”) shall apply to all applications for participation in the Program.  

# 1. Definitions.  

a.	 Certain Definitions. The following capitalized terms, as and when used in these Terms and Conditions, shall have the following meanings:  

“Affiliated Group” means, collectively, the Applicant and its parent, subsidiary and affiliate companies.  

“Applicant” means the nonresidential customer applying to participate in the Program.  

“Eligible Segments” means a charging station meeting the requirements set forth on Exhibit A which are acquired and owned by the Applicant and installed at its direction which are eligible for a Rebate pursuant to these Terms and Conditions.  

“EV” means electric vehicle.  

“EVSE” means electric vehicle supply equipment, which will be comprised of one or more Eligible Segments.  

“Rebate” means a rebate for the installation, ownership and operation of Eligible Segments paid by Duke Energy to certain Applicants in accordance with these Terms and Conditions.  

“Rebate Trigger Date” means the date upon which all of the following have occurred to Duke Energy’s reasonable satisfaction: (i) the Applicant has submitted all information necessary to verify the EVSE purchase, EVSE installation and operability of the EVSE, (ii) if required by Duke Energy, Duke Energy has inspected the EVSE and confirmed that the EVSE was properly installed and operational and (iii) the Applicant has submitted all Required Documentation.  

“Required Documentation” means (i) a complete application for participation in the Program, (ii) itemized invoices evidencing all third-party expenses for the acquisition and installation of the EVSE and (iii) documentation evidencing the receipt of any funds received from any other funding source for the purchase, ownership or installation of the EVSE (e.g., grants).  

“Out-of-Pocket Costs” means (i) the Applicant’s actual documented and verifiable third-party expenses for the acquisition and installation of the Eligible Segments, less (ii) any funds received from any other funding source for the purchase, ownership or installation of the Eligible Segments (e.g., grants).  

# 2. Program Rebate; Eligibility.  

a.	 Applicant Eligibility.  

i. Only nonresidential customer premises served by an active Duke Energy electric account that are (1) current and in good standing, (2) eligible under applicable state laws and regulations and (3) installing the EVSE behind a separate meter (or multiple separate meters) to serve only EV load and take service on schedule GST-1, a non-demand TOU rate, are eligible.  

ii. If multiple Eligible Segments are to be installed behind one meter, a submeter must be installed. Applicant must agree to the installation of a submeter behind a dedicated panel for data gathering. Applicants may call 800.441.7731 to verify whether a submeter must be installed. Duke Energy shall be responsible for the installation of such submeter, if necessary.  

iii. Duke Energy shall, in its sole discretion, make the determination as to whether the Applicant is eligible for participation in the Program.  

b.	 EVSE Eligibility.  

i. The eligible EVSE technology and the applicable Rebate per Eligible Segment are set forth on Exhibit A. Duke Energy will not pay any Rebate on more than ten (10) Eligible Segments per location and one hundred (100) Eligible Segments in the aggregate per Affiliated Group. In order to be eligible for a Rebate, the EVSE must be (1) new and (2) installed by a licensed electrician. Used or rebuilt equipment is not eligible for any Rebate.  

ii. Any EVSE provided to the Applicant for free or without any Out-of-Pocket Costs is not eligible for any Rebate.  

iii. Duke Energy shall, in its sole discretion, make the determination as to whether the EVSE is eligible for any Rebate  

c. Application Process.  

i. Applications may be submitted prior to procurement and installation of the EVSE but all Required Documentation must be submitted to Duke Energy within ninety (90) calendar days of the installation of the EVSE.  

ii. If an application is received with incomplete information or information which Duke Energy knows is incorrect, Duke Energy will notify the Applicant. In order to be eligible for a Rebate, the Applicant must submit a corrected and complete application to Duke Energy by (1) the end of the calendar year in which the original application was submitted or (2) within forty-five (45) days of Duke Energy’s notice to the Applicant that Applicant’s initial application is insufficient or incorrect, whichever is later, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2(c) (ii) shall limit the requirement set forth in Section 2(c)(i) that all Required Documentation must be submitted to Duke Energy within ninety (90) calendar days of the installation of the EVSE. Incomplete or incorrect applications shall not (1) reserve any Rebate for Applicant or (2) ensure that Applicant may participate in the Program or will be eligible for any Rebate.  

d.	 Costs; Calculation of Rebate.  

i. Following the Rebate Trigger Date, Duke Energy shall pay to the Applicant an amount equal to the aggregate Rebate as set forth on Exhibit A per each Eligible Segment, provided, however, that the aggregate Rebate payable to Applicant shall not exceed an amount equal to the lesser of (1) eighty percent $(80\%)$ of the Applicant’s Out-of-Pocket Costs or (2) the actual cost of the EVSE.  

ii. Duke Energy shall calculate the Rebate to be paid to Applicant in its sole discretion.  

iii. The Applicant’s participation in the Program and receipt of a Rebate may be taxable and the Applicant is solely responsible for paying all such taxes.  

iv. The Applicant’s account must be active and eligible throughout its participation in the Program, including throughout the process of application review. No Rebate will be issued to Applicants with inactive accounts.  

3. Repayment of Rebate. If (i) the eligible EVSE is removed or becomes inoperable (including pursuant to a disconnection of electric service to the Applicant) within five (5) years of the date of the most recent Rebate payment made to the Applicant and is not promptly repaired, replaced or otherwise made operational within fifteen (15) days of Duke Energy’s notice to the Applicant or (ii) Duke Energy determines that the Applicant has breached these Terms and Conditions, the Applicant’s application contained false information, or the Applicant otherwise acted fraudulently with regard to its participation in the Program, the Applicant shall reimburse Duke Energy for the Rebate (or portion thereof applicable to the EVSE in question) within thirty (30) days of Duke Energy’s notice to the Applicant.  

4. Applicant Representations and Warranties. The Applicant hereby represents and warrants to Duke Energy that all o the following are true and correct:  

a.	 All information provided in the Applicant’s application and other Required Documentation is true, accurate and complete.  

b.	 The EVSE has been, or will be, installed in compliance with all federal, state and local laws and all applicable codes and standards.   
c.	 The Applicant is not seeking any other rebate or incentive from Duke Energy on the EVSE or any portion thereof.   
d.	 The Applicant is not subject to backup withholding because (i) it is exempt from backup withholding; (ii) it has not been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that it is subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends; or (iii) the Internal Revenue Service has notified the Applicant that it is no longer subject to backup withholding.   
e.	 The Applicant is not a “foreign person” for U.S. federal income tax purposes.   
f.	 The Applicant has the right to install, own, operate and maintain the EVSE at the proposed premises.  

5. Program Monitoring and Right to Inspect. Duke Energy may conduct random site inspections of the EVSE both prior to and after completion of installation.  

# 6. Disclaimers; Indemnification; Changes to the Program.  

a. Disclaimers. Duke Energy:  

i. makes no representations or warranties whether the Applicant will or will not qualify to receive any Rebate or participate in the Program.  

ii. does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product or system design within the Program.  

iii. makes no representation or warranty, and assumes no liability with respect to the quality, safety, performance, or other aspect of any design, consulting, product, system, or EVSE installed or received and expressly disclaims any such representations, warranties, and liability, including, but not limited to, any implied warranties of merchantability of fitness for a particular purpose.  

iv. is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated or of obsolete or old equipment resulting from the Program.  

${\mathsf V}.$ is not liable for (and the Applicant hereby releases Duke Energy from) any liabilities, costs or expenses for, or damage caused by, the installation, use, malfunction, repair or replacement of the EVSE.  

vi. does not warrant that the EVSE is compliant with any federal, state or local laws or is compliant with or meets any applicable codes or standards.  

b.	 Indemnification. The Applicant hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, hold harmless and release Duke Energy (including Duke Energy’s affiliates and all of their respective employees, officers, directors and agents) from and against all claims, demands, causes of actions, liabilities, losses, damages and/or expenses (including reasonable attorney fees) resulting from (or alleged to result from) the installation, repair, replacement, operation, use and/or disposal of the EVSE (and related materials) covered herein, any Rebate or the Program including all liability from incidental, punitive, exemplary and/or consequential damages.  

c.	 Changes to the Program.  

i. Duke Energy, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to change (at any time) the Program, including the Rebate levels per Eligible Segment set forth on Exhibit A. In addition, Duke Energy (in its sole but reasonable discretion) retains the right to adjust or terminate any approved Rebate at any time whether due to regulatory requirements, measurement, verification and evaluation results, codes and standards, equipment pricing, or for any other reason.  

ii. Duke Energy reserves the right to limit the Program to a first-come, first-served basis.  

# Agreement and Program Attestation  

By clicking “I accept”, I certify that:  

· I have read, understood and agree, on behalf of the Applicant identified in this application and not in my individual capacity, to the above Terms and Conditions and that as an officer or other authorized representative of the Applicant identified in this application, hereby submit this application on such entity’s behalf. ·I certify that the Applicant identified in this application meets the eligibility requirements of the Program and that al information provided within this application is true, accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge.  

# Exhibit A  

# Eligible Segments & Rebate Amounts  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Eligible Segment</td><td>RebateAmountper EligibleSegment</td></tr><tr><td>Public Level 2 - J1772 Level 2 charger equipped to charge at dedicated capacity of 7.2</td><td>$627</td></tr><tr><td>MUD Level 2 - J1772 Level 2 charger equipped to charge at a dedicated capacity of 7.2 kW and above which is located at an apartment building or retirement community</td><td>$304</td></tr><tr><td>Workplace Level 2 - J1772 Level 2 charger equipped to charge at a dedicated capacity of 7.2 kW and above which is located in an area where it is available for use by Applicant's employees</td><td>$434</td></tr><tr><td>Fleet Level 2 - J1772 Level 2 charger equipped to charge at a dedicated capacity of 7.2 kW and above which is utilized for charging 1 or more EVs utilized by Applicant as part of its normal business operations</td><td>$1,175</td></tr><tr><td> o       e   o   public access and which is well-lit and close to amenities</td><td>$4,195</td></tr><tr><td>at a dedicated capacity of 20 kW and above which is intended by Applicant to charge school buses used in school transportation operations</td><td>$20,889</td></tr><tr><td>Transit Bus DCFC - J1772 SAE Combined Charging Standard charger equipped to charge at a dedicated capacity of 20 kW and above which is intended by Applicant to charge transit buses operated by public transit agencies, universities, airports and other government-owned or nonprofit entities</td><td>$24,423</td></tr><tr><td>a dedicated capacity of 20 kW and above which is utilized for charging 1 or more EVs utilized by applicant as part of its normal business operations</td><td>$35,600</td></tr><tr><td>Forklift - dedicated electric forklift fast charger</td><td>$3,200</td></tr><tr><td>eTRU - dedicated charger for an electric standby truck refrigeration unit</td><td>$1,531</td></tr></table></body></html>  