# CLECO PROJECT ENERGIZER Residential Electric Vehicle (EV) Incentive Program Terms and Conditions:  

Important: This form is to be read, acknowledged and submitted within the Cleco Project Energizer Residential EV Incentive (Program) application period. Cleco Power LLC (hereafter referred to as Cleco) offers this Program to provide participating Cleco customers (Participant[s]) with educational and financial assistance to facilitate the installation of qualifying equipment or electrical infrastructure to reduce local emissions (Table 1). The following Terms and Conditions apply to the Program. Details of this Program, including incentives and terms and conditions, are subject to change or cancellation without prior notice.  

Table 1: Qualified Equipment Incentive Details   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Equipment Type</td><td>Participant Type</td><td>Incentive</td><td>Limit per Participant</td></tr><tr><td>Level2EVCharger</td><td>Residential</td><td>$250 per port</td><td>per year, 2 total</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Cleco is offering a limited number of EV charger incentives. Availability is subject to overall participation levels, and Cleco reserves the right to cancel or modify this incentive Program at any time.  

# PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR:  

Cleco has contracted ICF to act as the Program Administrator (Administrator) and authorizes ICF to administer the Project Energizer Program, including, but not limited to: review, processing and approving Participant applications; pre- and post-inspections of Participant facilities; project information requests from Participants; measurement and verification activities; and issuing incentive checks.  

# APPLICATION DOCUMENTATION:  

Participants are advised to retain a copy of any documentation regarding the purchase and installation of EV chargers submitted to the program. Cleco will not be responsible for lost documentation.  

The required documentation for incentive applications must be delivered via the online application available on the Cleco website no later than 180 days from equipment purchase or installation date. Participant agrees to provide the following for each piece of equipment for which Participant seeks an incentive payment (collectively, the documentation): (i) a completed application, (ii) acknowledgement of the Terms and Conditions, and (iii) equipment invoice(s) indicating purchase date, manufacturer, model and serial number(s) of the installed equipment. Administrator shall verify that documentation meets program requirements within thirty (30) days of receipt and will notify the Participant of any discrepancies.  

# ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:  

This offer is valid for Cleco customers applying through the Cleco Program only. Customers can participate in any or all of the Program offerings.  

EV Charger Eligibility  

Only Cleco customers with accounts in good standing are eligible for this incentive. The customer’s property where the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) is installed must be located in Cleco's service territory. Documentation must include a copy of the sales receipt (showing purchase date and model number) or installation invoice (showing installation date) for the Level 2 EV charger(s). If an installation invoice is not provided, photographic documentation showing proof of installation is required.   
• Total incentive paid will not exceed the sum of purchase price, installation cost, and other eligible related costs associated with Level 2 EV charger(s), exclusive of tax, title, and license.   
Only new EVSE equipment is eligible; resale material or material that is rebuilt, refurbished, damaged, rented, received from insurance claims, received from a manufacturer warranty, or won as a prize does not qualify. Participants must be a residential Cleco "customer of record" through rate Schedule RS to qualify for a residential EV charger incentive. Failure to comply with any foregoing requirements could result in denial of incentives.  

Cleco is offering a limited number of EV charger incentives on a per port basis for residential locations. Residential Participants may not receive more than 1 incentive per year, up to 2 total. Cleco highly recommends that all associated battery chargers be installed by a licensed electrician in accordance with local municipal codes and permitting procedures.  

INCENTIVE PAYMENTS: Participant should expect to receive payment directly from the Administrator within four (4) to six (6) weeks after submitting documentation or verification by the Administrator of the application and required data, provided the Participant has submitted all required documentation in a timely manner and all program requirements have been met.  

LIMITED OFFERING: Program applications are accepted on a first-come, first-served basis. For the current Program, no single customer may receive more than $25\%$ of the total annual budget unless approved by both Cleco and the Administrator. A customer is defined as a holder of a single account or multiple accounts in aggregate. For purposes of Program caps, a customer who is the holder of multiple accounts with a single Cleco customer identification number will be considered a single customer.  

SAFETY AND BUILDING CODES: Participant's installing contractor will verify that the installed Level 2 EV chargers meet all applicable building codes zoning laws local, state and federal requirements and other relevant requirements. Contractor is responsible for obtaining any applicable permits as required by aforementioned code or law.  

VERIFICATION AND ACCESS: Cleco reserves the right to verify any Level 2 EV charger installation and to have reasonable access to the site to inspect and verify equipment.  

TAX LIABILITY: Cleco will not be responsible for any tax liability that may be imposed on the Participant as a result of the incentive payment. Please contact a tax advisor for more information.  

FACSIMILE/SCANNED: Facsimile transmission of any signed original document, and the retransmission of any signed facsimile transmission, shall be the same as delivery of the original signed document. Scanned original documents transmitted to Cleco as an attachment via electronic mail shall be the same as delivery of the original signed document. At the request of Cleco, Participant shall confirm documents with a facsimile-transmitted signature or a scanned signature by providing the original document.  

ENDORSEMENT: Cleco does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor, system design, or contractor in offering this program.  

INFORMATION RELEASE: Participant agrees that Cleco may include in reports filed with the Louisiana Public Service Commission or other applicable regulatory, industry organization, or legal authority, certain information obtained by Cleco from Participant, including Participant's name and Cleco services provided.  

MARKET RESEARCH AND PROGRAM EVALUATION: Participants may be contacted by ICF (Program Administrator) or Cleco to participate in Cleco’s study of uses, practices and preferences to improve future electrification programs and encourage greater clean electric technology deployment.  

PROPERTY RIGHTS: Participant certifies to Cleco that Participant has the right to install the Level 2 EV charger for which an incentive is being sought at the property where the Level 2 EV charger is installed, or has otherwise obtained consent from the property owner or landlord to install the Level 2 EV charger.  

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY & WARRANTIES: Cleco is not liable to the Participant for any consequential or incidental damages, or for any damages in tort connected with or resulting from participation in this program. Cleco does not warrant the proper completion of work or performance of installed products, expressly or implicitly. Cleco reserves the right to refuse payment of an incentive if Participant fails to first submit to Cleco a complete and accurate application form. Cleco shall in no way be liable or responsible for any equipment installed by, or for any act or omission of, any other entity or individual, including, without limitation, the equipment manufacturer or any electrician, technician or other service provider. Cleco’s liability and responsibility in connection with this incentive program shall be strictly limited to the making of certain incentive payments for eligible equipment, and Cleco does not make, will not provide and specifically disclaims any and all representations, warranties, covenants or guarantees whatsoever, express or implied, in connection with the electric equipment or the program itself, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The Participant must contact the installation contractor or product manufacturer for details regarding product performance and warranties. Cleco is not a party to any sales transaction between the participant and the manufacturer or dealer.  

PARTICIPANT RESPONSIBILITIES: Participant, at their own expense, is responsible for meeting all requirements and complying with all local and state laws and codes concerning this incentive program, including without limitation, the installation and maintenance of eligible infrastructure. Participant shall, at their own expense, obtain and maintain licenses and permits needed to install eligible equipment. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary licenses and permits constitutes a material breach of Participant’s obligations under these Terms and Conditions.  

Additional terms and conditions apply: Terms and Conditions | Cleco Contact electricvehicles@cleco.com with questions.  