# Title 23 —Highways Chapter I —Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation Subchapter G —Engineering and Traffic Operations  

art 680 National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements   
§ 680.100 Purpose.   
§ 680.102 Applicability.   
§ 680.104 Definitions.   
§ 680.106 Installation, operation, and maintenance by qualified technicians of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.   
§ 680.108 Interoperability of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.   
§ 680.110 Traffic control devices or on-premises signs acquired, installed, or operated.   
§ 680.112 Data submittal.   
§ 680.114 Charging network connectivity of electric vehicle charging infrastructure. § 680.116 Information on publicly available electric vehicle charging infrastructure locations, pricing, real time availability, and accessibility through mapping.   
§ 680.118 Other Federal requirements.  

# PART 680—NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS  

Authority: 23 U.S.C. 109, 23 U.S.C. 315; Pub. L. 117-58, title VIII of division J.  

Source: 88 FR 12752, Feb. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.  

# § 680.100 Purpose.  

The purpose of this part is to prescribe minimum standards and requirements for projects funded under the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program and projects for the construction of publicly accessible electric vehicle (EV) chargers that are funded with funds made available under Title 23, United States Code, including any EV charging infrastructure project funded with Federal funds that is treated as a project on a Federal-aid highway.  

# § 680.102 Applicability.  

Except where noted, these regulations apply to all NEVI Formula Program projects as well as projects for the construction of publicly accessible EV chargers that are funded with funds made available under Title 23, United States Code, including any EV charging infrastructure project funded with Federal funds that is treated as a project on a Federal-aid highway.  

# § 680.104 Definitions.  

AC Level 2 means a charger that operates on a circuit from 208 volts to 240 volts and transfers alternatingcurrent (AC) electricity to a device in an EV that converts alternating current to direct current to recharge an EV battery.  

Alternative Fuel Corridor (AFC) means national EV charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling corridors designated by FHWA pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 151.  

CHAdeMO means a type of protocol for a charging connector interface between an EV and a charger (see www.chademo.com). It specifies the physical, electrical, and communication requirements of the connector and mating vehicle inlet for direct-current (DC) fast charging. It is an abbreviation of “charge de move”, equivalent to “charge for moving.”  

Charger means a device with one or more charging ports and connectors for charging EVs. Also referred to as Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE).  

Charging network means a collection of chargers located on one or more property(ies) that are connected via digital communications to manage the facilitation of payment, the facilitation of electrical charging, and any related data requests.  

Charging network provider means the entity that operates the digital communication network that remotely manages the chargers. Charging network providers may also serve as charging station operators and/or manufacture chargers.  

Charging port means the system within a charger that charges one EV. A charging port may have multiple connectors, but it can provide power to charge only one EV through one connector at a time.  

Charging station means the area in the immediate vicinity of a group of chargers and includes the chargers, supporting equipment, parking areas adjacent to the chargers, and lanes for vehicle ingress and egress. A charging station could comprise only part of the property on which it is located.  

Charging station operator means the entity that owns the chargers and supporting equipment and facilities at one or more charging stations. Although this entity may delegate responsibility for certain aspects of charging station operation and maintenance to subcontractors, this entity retains responsibility for operation and maintenance of chargers and supporting equipment and facilities. In some cases, the charging station operator and the charging network provider are the same entity.  

Combined Charging System (CCS) means a standard connector interface that allows direct current fast chargers to connect to, communicate with, and charge EVs.  

Community means either a group of individuals living in geographic proximity to one another, or a geographically dispersed set of individuals (such as individuals with disabilities, migrant workers, or Native Americans), where either type of group experiences common conditions.  

Connector means the device that attaches an EV to a charging port in order to transfer electricity.  

Contactless payment methods means a secure method for consumers to purchase services using a debit card, credit card, smartcard, mobile application, or another payment device by using radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and near-field communication (NFC).  

Cryptographic agility means the capacity to rapidly update or switch between data encryption systems, algorithms, and processes without the need to redesign the protocol, software, system, or standard.  

# 3 CFR Part 680 (up to date as of 3/11/2025) National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements 23 CFR 680.104 “Direct Current Fast Charger (DCFC)”  

Direct Current Fast Charger (DCFC) means a charger that enables rapid charging by delivering direct-current (DC) electricity directly to an EV's battery.  

Disadvantaged communities (DACs) mean census tracts or communities with common conditions identified by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Department of Energy that consider appropriate data, indices, and screening tools to determine whether a specific community is disadvantaged based on a combination of variables that may include, but are not limited to, the following: low income, high and/or persistent poverty; high unemployment and underemployment; racial and ethnic residential segregation, particularly where the segregation stems from discrimination by government entities; linguistic isolation; high housing cost burden and substandard housing; distressed neighborhoods; high transportation cost burden and/or low transportation access; disproportionate environmental stressor burden and high cumulative impacts; limited water and sanitation access and affordability; disproportionate impacts from climate change; high energy cost burden and low energy access; jobs lost through the energy transition; and limited access to healthcare.  

Distributed energy resource means small, modular, energy generation and storage technologies that provide electric capacity or energy where it is needed.  

Electric Vehicle (EV) means a motor vehicle that is either partially or fully powered on electric power received from an external power source. For the purposes of this regulation, this definition does not include golf carts, electric bicycles, or other micromobility devices.  

Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) refers to a comprehensive training program for the installation of electric vehicle supply equipment. For more information, refer to https://evitp.org/.  

Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) See definition of a charger.  

Open Charge Point Interface (OCPI) means an open-source communication protocol that governs the communication among multiple charging networks, other communication networks, and software applications to provide information and services for EV drivers.  

Open Charge Point Protocol (OCPP) means an open-source communication protocol that governs the communication between chargers and the charging networks that remotely manage the chargers.  

Plug and Charge means a method of initiating charging, whereby an EV charging customer plugs a connector into their vehicle and their identity is authenticated through digital certificates defined by ISO-15118, a charging session initiates, and a payment is transacted automatically, without any other customer actions required at the point of use.  

Power Sharing means dynamically limiting the charging power output of individual charging ports at the same charging station to ensure that the sum total power output to all EVs concurrently charging remains below a maximum power threshold. This is also called automated load management.  

Private entity means a corporation, partnership, company, other nongovernmental entity, or nonprofit organization.  

Public Key Infrastructure $(P K I)$ means a system of processes, technologies, and policies to encrypt and digitally sign data. It involves the creation, management, and exchange of digital certificates that authenticate the identity of users, devices, or services to ensure trust and secure communication.  

Secure payment method means a type of payment processing that ensures a user's financial and personal information is protected from fraud and unauthorized access.  

Smart charge management means controlling the amount of power dispensed by chargers to EVs to meet customers' charging needs while also responding to external power demand or pricing signals to provide load management, resilience, or other benefits to the electric grid.  

State EV infrastructure deployment plan means the plan submitted to the FHWA by the State describing how it intends to use its apportioned NEVI Formula Program funds.  

§ 680.106 Installation, operation, and maintenance by qualified technicians of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.  

(a) Procurement process transparency for the operation of EV charging stations. States or other direct recipients shall ensure public transparency for how the price will be determined and set for EV charging and make available for public review the following:  

(1) Summary of the procurement process used;   
(2) Number of bids received;   
(3) Identification of the awardee;   
(4) Proposed contract to be executed with the awardee;   
(5) Financial summary of contract payments suitable for public disclosure including price and cost data, in accordance with State law; and   
(6) Any information describing how prices for EV charging are to be set under the proposed contract, in accordance with State law.  

# (b) Number of charging ports.  

(1) When including DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs, charging stations must have at least four network-connected DCFC charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs.   
(2) In other locations, EV charging stations must have at least four network-connected (either DCFC or AC Level 2 or a combination of DCFC and AC Level 2) charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs.  

(c) Connector type. All charging connectors must meet applicable industry standards. Each DCFC charging port must be capable of charging any CCS-compliant vehicle and each DCFC charging port must have at least one permanently attached CCS Type 1 connector. In addition, permanently attached CHAdeMO (www.chademo.com) connectors can be provided using only FY2022 NEVI Funds. Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a permanently attached J1772 connector and must charge any J1772-compliant vehicle.  

# (d) Power level.  

(1) DCFC charging ports must support output voltages between 250 volts DC and 920 volts DC. DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 150 kilowatt (kW) and supply power according to an EV's power delivery request up to $150\mathsf{k W},$ simultaneously from each charging port at a charging station. These corridorserving DCFC charging stations may conduct power sharing so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's request for power up to $150\mathsf{k W}.$  

(2) Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 6 kW and the charging station must be capable of providing at least 6 kW per port simultaneously across all AC ports. AC Level 2 chargers may conduct power sharing and/or participate in smart charge management programs so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's demand for power up to 6 kW, unless the EV charging customer consents to accepting a lower power level.  

(e) Availability. Charging stations located along and designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and sited at locations physically accessible to the public 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, year-round. Charging stations not located along or not designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and accessible to the public at least as frequently as the business operating hours of the site host. This section does not prohibit isolated or temporary interruptions in service or access because of maintenance or repairs or due to the exclusions outlined in § 680.116(b)(3).  

(f) Payment methods. Unless charging is permanently provided free of charge to customers, charging stations must:  

(1) Provide for secure payment methods, accessible to persons with disabilities, which at a minimum shall include a contactless payment method that accepts major debit and credit cards, and either an automated toll-free phone number or a short message/messaging system (SMS) that provides the EV charging customer with the option to initiate a charging session and submit payment;  

(2) Not require a membership for use;  

(3) Not delay, limit, or curtail power flow to vehicles on the basis of payment method or membership; and  

(4) Provide access for users that are limited English proficient and accessibility for people with disabilities. Automated toll-free phone numbers and SMS payment options must clearly identify payment access for these populations.  

(g) Equipment certification. States or other direct recipients must ensure that all chargers are certified by an Occupational Safety and Health Administration Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory and that all AC Level 2 chargers are ENERGY STAR certified. DCFC and AC Level 2 chargers should be certified to the appropriate Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standards for EV charging system equipment.  

(h) Security. States or other direct recipients must implement physical and cybersecurity strategies consistent with their respective State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plans to ensure charging station operations protect consumer data and protect against the risk of harm to, or disruption of, charging infrastructure and the grid.  

(1) Physical security strategies may include topics such as lighting; siting and station design to ensure visibility from onlookers; driver and vehicle safety; video surveillance; emergency call boxes; fire prevention; charger locks; and strategies to prevent tampering and illegal surveillance of payment devices.   
(2) Cybersecurity strategies may include the following topics: user identity and access management; cryptographic agility and support of multiple PKIs; monitoring and detection; incident prevention and handling; configuration, vulnerability, and software update management; third-party cybersecurity testing and certification; and continuity of operation when communication between the charger and charging network is disrupted.   
(i) Long-term stewardship. States or other direct recipients must ensure that chargers are maintained in compliance with this part for a period of not less than 5 years from the initial date of operation.   
(j) Qualified technician. States or other direct recipients shall ensure that the workforce installing, maintaining, and operating chargers has appropriate licenses, certifications, and training to ensure that the installation and maintenance of chargers is performed safely by a qualified and increasingly diverse workforce of licensed technicians and other laborers. Further:  

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, all electricians installing, operating, or maintaining EVSE must meet one of the following requirements:  

(i) Certification from the EVITP.  

(ii) Graduation or a continuing education certificate from a registered apprenticeship program for electricians that includes charger-specific training and is developed as a part of a national guideline standard approved by the Department of Labor in consultation with the Department of Transportation.  

(2) For projects requiring more than one electrician, at least one electrician must meet the requirements above, and at least one electrician must be enrolled in an electrical registered apprenticeship program.  

(3) All other onsite, non-electrical workers directly involved in the installation, operation, and maintenance of chargers must have graduated from a registered apprenticeship program or have appropriate licenses, certifications, and training as required by the State.  

(k) Customer service. States or other direct recipients must ensure that EV charging customers have mechanisms to report outages, malfunctions, and other issues with charging infrastructure. Charging station operators must enable access to accessible platforms that provide multilingual services. States or other direct recipients must comply with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirements and multilingual access when creating reporting mechanisms.  

(l) Customer data privacy. Charging station operators must collect, process, and retain only that personal information strictly necessary to provide the charging service to a consumer, including information to complete the charging transaction and to provide the location of charging stations to the consumer. Chargers and charging networks should be compliant with appropriate Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) for the processing, transmission, and storage of cardholder data. Charging Station Operators must also take reasonable measures to safeguard consumer data.  

$(\mathsf{m})$ Use of program income.  

(1) Any net income from revenue from the sale, use, lease, or lease renewal of real property acquired shall be used for Title 23, United States Code, eligible projects.   
(2) For purposes of program income or revenue earned from the operation of an EV charging station, the State or other direct recipient should ensure that all revenues received from operation of the EV charging facility are used only for: (i) Debt service with respect to the EV charging station project, including funding of reasonable reserves and debt service on refinancing; (ii) A reasonable return on investment of any private person financing the EV charging station project, as determined by the State or other direct recipient;  

# 23 CFR Part 680 (up to date as of 3/11/2025) National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements  

(iii) Any costs necessary for the improvement and proper operation and maintenance of the EV charging station, including reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation;   
(iv) If the EV charging station is subject to a public-private partnership agreement, payments that the party holding the right to the revenues owes to the other party under the public-private partnership agreement; and   
(v) Any other purpose for which Federal funds may be obligated under Title 23, United States Cod  

# § 680.108 Interoperability of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.  

(a) Charger-to-EV communication. Chargers must conform to ISO 15118-3 and must have hardware capable of implementing both ISO 15118-2 and ISO 15118-20. By February 28, 2024, charger software must conform to ISO 15118-2 and be capable of Plug and Charge. Conformance testing for charger software and hardware should follow ISO 15118-4 and ISO 15118-5, respectively.  

(b) Charger-to-Charger-Network Communication. Chargers must conform to Open Charge Point Protocol (OCPP) 1.6J or higher. By February 28, 2024, chargers must conform to OCPP 2.0.1.  

(c) Charging-Network-to-Charging-Network Communication. By February 28, 2024, charging networks must be capable of communicating with other charging networks in accordance with Open Charge Point Interface (OCPI) 2.2.1.  

(d) Network switching capability. Chargers must be designed to securely switch charging network providers without any changes to hardware.  

# § 680.110 Traffic control devices or on-premises signs acquired, installed, or operated.  

(a) Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways. All traffic control devices must comply with part 655 of this subchapter.   
(b) On-premises signs. On-property or on-premise advertising signs must comply with part 750 of this chapter.  

# § 680.112 Data submittal.  

(a) Quarterly data submittal. States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on a quarterly basis in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any quarterly data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.  

(1) Charging station identifier that the following data can be associated with. This must be the same charging station name or identifier used to identify the charging station in data made available to third-parties in § 680.116(c)(1);   
(2) Charging port identifier. This must be the same charging port identifier used to identify the charging port in data made available to third-parties in § 680.116(c)(8)(ii);   
(3) Charging session start time, end time, and any error codes associated with an unsuccessful charging session by port;   
(4) Energy (kWh) dispensed to EVs per charging session by port;   
(5) Peak session power (kW) by port;   
(6) Payment method associated with each charging session;  

# 23 CFR Part 680 (up to date as of 3/11/2025) National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements  

(7) Charging station port uptime, T_outage, and T_excluded calculated in accordance with the equation in § 680.116(b) for each of the previous 3 months;   
(8) Duration (minutes) of each outage.  

(b) Annual data submittal. Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on an annual basis, on or before March 1, in a manner prescribed by FHWA. Any annual data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.  

(1) Maintenance and repair cost per charging station for the previous year.   
(2) For private entities identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, identification of and participation in any State or local business opportunity certification programs including but not limited to minorityowned businesses, Veteran-owned businesses, woman-owned businesses, and businesses owned by economically disadvantaged individuals.  

(c) One-time data submittal. This paragraph (c) applies only to both the NEVI Formula Program projects and grants awarded under 23 U.S.C. 151(f) for projects that are for EV charging stations located along and designed to serve the users of designated AFCs. Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are collected and submitted once for each charging station, on or before March 1 of each year, in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any one-time data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.  

(1) The name and address of the private entity(ies) involved in the operation and maintenance of chargers.   
(2) Distributed energy resource installed capacity, in kW or kWh as appropriate, of asset by type (e.g., stationary battery, solar, etc.) per charging station; and   
(3) Charging station real property acquisition cost, charging equipment acquisition and installation cost, and distributed energy resource acquisition and installation cost; and   
(4) Aggregate grid connection and upgrade costs paid to the electric utility as part of the project, separated into: (i) Total distribution and system costs, such as extensions to overhead/underground lines, and upgrades from single-phase to three-phase lines; and (ii) Total service costs, such as the cost of including poles, transformers, meters, and on-service connection equipment.  

(d) Community engagement outcomes report. This paragraph (d) only applies to the NEVI Formula Program projects. States must include in the State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan a description of the community engagement activities conducted as part of the development and approval of their most recently-submitted State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan, including engagement with DACs.  

# § 680.114 Charging network connectivity of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.  

(a) Charger-to-charger-network communication.  

(1) Chargers must communicate with a charging network via a secure communication method. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPP requirements.  

# 23 CFR Part 680 (up to date as of 3/11/2025) National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements  

(2) Chargers must have the ability to receive and implement secure, remote software updates and conduct real-time protocol translation, encryption and decryption, authentication, and authorization in their communication with charging networks. (3) Charging networks must perform and chargers must support remote charger monitoring, diagnostics, control, and smart charge management. (4) Chargers and charging networks must securely measure, communicate, store, and report energy and power dispensed, real-time charging-port status, real-time price to the customer, and historical charging-port uptime.   
(b) Interoperability. See § 680.108 for interoperability requirements.   
(c) Charging-network-to-charging-network communication. A charging network must be capable of communicating with other charging networks to enable an EV driver to use a single method of identification to charge at Charging Stations that are a part of multiple charging networks. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPI requirements.   
(d) Charging-network-to-grid communication. Charging networks must be capable of secure communication with electric utilities, other energy providers, or local energy management systems.   
(e) Disrupted network connectivity. Chargers must remain functional if communication with the charging network is temporarily disrupted, such that they initiate and complete charging sessions, providing the minimum required power level defined in § 680.106(d).  

# § 680.116 Information on publicly available electric vehicle charging infrastructure locations, pricing, real time availability, and accessibility through mapping.  

(a) Communication of price.  

(1) The price for charging must be displayed prior to initiating a charging transaction and be based on the price for electricity to charge in $\$1$ /kWh. If the price for charging is not currently based on the price for electricity to charge an Electric Vehicle in \$/kWh, the requirements of this subparagraph must be satisfied within one year from February 28, 2023.   
(2) The price for charging displayed and communicated via the charging network must be the real-time price (i.e., price at that moment in time). The price at the start of the session cannot change during the session.   
(3) Price structure including any other fees in addition to the price for electricity to charge must be clearly displayed and explained.  

(b) Minimum uptime. States or other direct recipients must ensure that each charging port has an average annual uptime of greater than $97\%$ .  

(1) A charging port is considered “up” when its hardware and software are both online and available fo use, or in use, and the charging port successfully dispenses electricity in accordance with requirements for minimum power level (see § 680.106(d)).   
(2) Charging port uptime must be calculated on a monthly basis for the previous twelve months.   
(3) Charging port uptime percentage must be calculated using the following equation: $\mathbf{\upmu}=\left(\left(525,600-\left(\mathrm{T\_{-}0u t a g e-\mathrm{T\_{-}e x c}\mid u d e d}\right)\right)/525,600\right)\times100\times10^{3}\mathrm{T\_{+}}$   
where:  

23 CFR Part 680 (up to date as of 3/11/2025) National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Standards and Requirements  

$\upmu=$ port uptime percentage,  

T_outage $=$ total minutes of outage in previous year, and  

T_excluded $=$ total minutes of outage in previous year caused by the following reasons outside the charging station operator's control, provided that the charging station operator can demonstrate that the charging port would otherwise be operational: electric utility service interruptions, failure to charge or meet the EV charging customer's expectation for power delivery due to the fault of the vehicle, scheduled maintenance, vandalism, or natural disasters. Also excluded are hours outside of the identified hours of operation of the charging station.  

(c) Third-party data sharing. States or other direct recipients must ensure that the following data fields are made available, free of charge, to third-party software developers, via application programming interface:  

(1) Unique charging station name or identifier;   
(2) Address (street address, city, State, and zip code) of the property where the charging station is located;   
(3) Geographic coordinates in decimal degrees of exact charging station location;   
(4) Charging station operator name;   
(5) Charging network provider name;   
(6) Charging station status (operational, under construction, planned, or decommissioned);   
(7) Charging station access information: (i) Charging station access type (public or limited to commercial vehicles); (ii) Charging station access days/times (hours of operation for the charging station);  

(8) Charging port information:  

(i) Number of charging ports;   
(ii) Unique port identifier;   
(iii) Connector types available by port;   
(iv) Charging level by port (DCFC, AC Level 2, etc.);   
(v) Power delivery rating in kilowatts by port;   
(vi) Accessibility by vehicle with trailer (pull-through stall) by port (yes/no);   
(vii) Real-time status by port in terms defined by Open Charge Point Interface 2.2.1;  

(9) Pricing and payment information:  

(i) Pricing structure;   
(ii) Real-time price to charge at each charging port, in terms defined by Open Charge Point Interface 2.2.1; and   
(iii) Payment methods accepted at charging station.  

# § 680.118 Other Federal requirements.  

All applicable Federal statutory and regulatory requirements apply to the EV charger projects. These requirements include, but are not limited to:  

(a) All statutory and regulatory requirements that are applicable to funds apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code, and the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply. This includes the applicable requirements of 23, United States Code, and Title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, such as the applicable Buy America requirements at 23 U.S.C. 313 and Build America, Buy America Act (Pub. L. No 117-58, div. G sections 70901-70927).   
(b) As provided at 23 U.S.C. 109(s)(2), projects to install EV chargers are treated as if the project is located on a Federal-aid highway. As a project located on a Federal-aid highway, 23 U.S.C. 113 applies and Davis Bacon Federal wage rate requirements included at subchapter IV of chapter 31 of Title 40, U.S.C., must be paid for any project funded with NEVI Formula Program funds.   
(c) The American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and implementing regulations, apply to EV charging stations by prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability by public and private entities. EV charging stations must comply with applicable accessibility standards adopted by the Department of Transportation into its ADA regulations (49 CFR part 37) in 2006, and adopted by the Department of Justice into its ADA regulations (28 CFR parts 35 and 36) in 2010.   
(d) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and implementing regulations, apply to this program to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.   
(e) All applicable requirements of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act), and implementing regulations, apply to this program.   
(f) The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program does not apply to the NEVI Formula Funds; however, the DBE program may apply to other programs apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code.   
(g) The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act, and implementing regulations, apply to this program by establishing minimum standards for federally funded programs and projects that involve the acquisition of real property (real estate) or the displacement or relocation of persons from their homes, businesses, or farms.   
(h) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), the Council on Environmental Quality's NEPA implementing regulations, and applicable agency NEPA procedures apply to this program by establishing procedural requirements to ensure that Federal agencies consider the consequences of their proposed actions on the human environment and inform the public about their decision making for major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.  