# HAWAII NEVI STATE PLAN  

You need to enable JavaScript to run this app.  

# Take our new survey at https://arcg.is/1eufDW1  

The National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program was authorized under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which was enacted as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.   
The $\$5$ billion NEVI Formula Program will provide dedicated funding to states to strategically deploy electrical vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure and create an interconnected network that supports data collection, access and reliability.   
Hawaii’s State Plan 2024 Update is available here. The approval letter is linked here.   
Hawaii’s State Plan 2023 Update is available here. The approval letter is linked here.   
Hawaii’s State Plan for Year 1 is available here. An addendum was added in September 2022. The approval letter dated Sept. 27, 2022, is linked here.  

# FEDERAL PROGRAM GOALS  

Put the U.S. on the path to a network of 500,000 EV chargers.   
Accelerate the adoption of EVs.   
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions.   
Help the U.S. lead global transportation electrification efforts.   
Build out alternative fuel corridors.  

# FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE PLANS  

Minimum of four 150kW combo charging system direct current fast chargers per site.   
Site power capability no less than 600 kW.   
50 miles between sites along designated alternative fuel corridors within one mile of the highway.   
Interagency Electric Vehicle Coordinated Council.  

# RELATED RESOURCES  

White House Fact Sheet   
FHWA Press Release   
FHWA Minimum Standards and Requirements for EV Chargers & NEVI Program FAQs   
DriveElectric.Gov Update   
Proposed federal NEVI regulations  