# Louisiana - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-12 16:57:38 
 ***state** : Louisiana 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***administrator*** : Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $73,367,735 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development (DOTD) will
administer NEVI funds through a competitive grant process. DOTD [plans
](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/ev_deployment_plans/la_nevi_plan.pdf)to
install 75 DC fast charging sites statewide by year 5 of the program, which
would be about 300-760 charging ports. The DOTD will also evaluate existing
corridors for upgrades and engage with freight companies to include their
needs in the state grant program. NEVI funding will help construct about 1,124
miles of EV charging corridors. Grant recipients under the program will be
responsible for a minimum of 20% of the project costs. Louisiana DOTD's 2023
plan [update
](http://wwwsp.dotd.la.gov/Inside_LaDOTD/Divisions/Operations/Electric-
Vehicle/webdocs/Louisiana nevi plan.pdf)was released in Q3 2023.

During Q4 2023, the LA DOTD released a [draft Round 1
RFP](http://wwwsp.dotd.la.gov/Inside_LaDOTD/Divisions/Operations/Electric-
Vehicle/webdocs/LA NEVI RFP \(Draft\).pdf). The draft RFP stipulated that the
state plans to award 10 projects, which would be a total of about $10 million
for DCFCs.

 
 