# Alabama - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-12 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Alabama 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***administrator*** : Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $79,308,285 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs (ADECA) stated that
it [plans](https://adeca.alabama.gov/wp-content/uploads/Alabama-Electric-
Vehicle-Infrastructure-Plan.pdf) to administer the received funding through a
competitive grant program that started in the early first half of 2023.
According to the state agency, this funding (in addition to state funding) has
been projected to make all Alabama interstates eligible to transition to EV
corridor-ready status over the next 5-7 years. NEVI funding will help
construct about 1,002 miles of EV charging corridors. On April 5, 2023, the
ADECA released its state-funded EV charging infrastructure grant program
application as part of its EV infrastructure plan. The deadline was set for
midnight CST on May 22, 2023.

The ADECA released the fiscal year [2024 plan](https://adeca.alabama.gov/wp-
content/uploads/Alabama-FY24-NEVI-Plan.pdf) in late 2024. The new plan also
detailed expected dates for grant application requests for NEVI-funded
charging infrastructure, including the following: Round 1 in September 2023,
Round 2 in Q4 2023, Round 3 in July 2024, Round 4 in July 2025, and Round 5 in
July 2026. Applicants are required to provide a 20% minimum cost share, and
the state will include all eligible EV charging corridors as eligible project
locations during each NEVI application round.

ADECA began accepting Round 1 applications later than anticipated, having
started the submittal process on October 24, 2023, until January 24, 2024.
Round 1 funds did not exceed an estimated $11.74 million, and awards varied.

 
 