# National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program  

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), enacted as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), has made a historic investment in electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure to help make EV chargers accessible to all Americans for local to long-distance trips.  

Part of this investment involves the development of the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program, which provides funding to states to strategically deploy EV charging infrastructure and establish an interconnected network to facilitate data collection, access, and reliability.  

Michigan will receive a total of roughly $\$110$ million in NEVI Formula Program funding through Fiscal Year 2026.  

The NEVI Formula Program will complement Michigan's existing EV charging efforts, such as Charge Up Michigan and the Lake Michigan Circuit.  

Collectively, these programs will aim to build out the infrastructure to support two million EVs on Michigan roads by 2030.  

# Resources  

Watch recorded NEVI webinar   
Charge Up Michigan Lake Michigan Circuit   
Michigan Laws and Incentives Related to Alternative Fuels   
Plug-In Electric Vehicle Handbook for Public Charging Station Hosts   
Electric Vehicle Charging Justice40 map   
Charging Forward: A Toolkit for Planning and Funding Rural Electric Mobility Infrastructure   
State of Michigan Community EV toolkit  

# NEVI project status map  

This map displays the selected sites as part of Round 1 of the Michigan NEVI Plan and shows gaps for the upcoming Round 2.  

# Program opportunities  

The U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) has established minimum standards and requirements for projects funded under the NEVI Formula Program, as defined in 23 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 680. In addition, NEVI program guidance was released June 2023 and FHWA posts periodic FAQ updates. This will serve as the guiding document for Michigan's program development.  

MDOT anticipates multiple procurement rounds over the life of the NEVI program.  

NEVI (Design-Build-Operate-Maintain) - Round 1  

NEVI Round 1 selection results  

NEVI (Design-Build-Operate-Maintain) - Round 2  

# Preparation for applicants  

Applicants can perform several tasks (at their own cost) to prepare for the submission process. Any costs incurred before a contract is approved are not eligible for reimbursement.  

Verify your site is in an eligible location with the Michigan NEVI Formula Program planning map. Connect with your utility provider to get a site assessment to determine if power upgrades are necessary. You will need a letter of support from your utility provider to be considered for funding. Several investor-owned utilities have rebate programs that can be used as matching funds:  

Consumers Energy PowerMiDrive DTE Charging Forward Indiana Michigan Power Plugged In Alpena Power Company EV Charging Pilot  

Begin researching the permitting and inspection process of the local jurisdiction.  

Begin researching charger hardware and software providers.   
Begin identifying Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) certified electricians (or if an electrician, get EVITP certified)   
Begin forming your team. Not sure where to start? Check out our EV Infrastructure Project Partners directory to identify partners with services to meet your needs/broadcast your own services.  

# Michigan's Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Plan  

The State of Michigan is required to submit an Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Plan to FHWA on an annual basis. The plan depicts how the State will successfully deploy the NEVI Formula Program Funds within Michigan.  

The plan was spearheaded by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE), the Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Opportunity (LEO), the Office of Future Mobility and Electrification (OFME), the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT), and the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC), with support from many other agencies.  

FY24 Michigan State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment FY23 Michigan State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment FY22 Michigan State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment  

# Contacts General inquiries  

MDOT-Michigan-NEVI@Michigan.gov  

# Media inquiries  

Jeff Cranson, Director of Public Affairs 517-241-2400  

Sign up for Innovating Contracting updates  

# National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program  

Copyright State of Michigan  