# New Hampshire - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-12 20:08:52 
 ***state** : New Hampshire 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***administrator*** : New Hampshire Department of Transportation 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $17,271,581 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies

 
 ## Summary : 
 The New Hampshire Department of Transportation (DOT) will use its share of
NEVI funding to continue to operate its EV Working Committee which will
oversee the deployment process of EV charging stations. The DOT stipulated
that it would update its [plan
](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/ev_deployment_plans/nh_nevi_plan.pdf)in
fiscal year 2024 with finalized locations for EV charging stations. According
to the plan, in fiscal year 2025 many of the EV stations will be operational,
and construction of others will continue. In fiscal year 2026 every EV
charging station would be ready to use by the end of the year, and the
Committee will analyze any gaps in the state's charging network. NEVI funding
will help construct about 682 miles of EV charging corridors. The New
Hampshire DOT released its 2023 plan [update
](https://www.dot.nh.gov/sites/g/files/ehbemt811/files/inline-
documents/updated-nevi-plan-8-1-2023.pdf)during Q3 2023, which included mostly
minor updates, an updated deployment status of events, and new contracting and
public engagement sections, among other updates.

The NHDOT released its Phase 1 RFP in mid-October 2023. The Phase 1 RFP had a
response deadline of December 15, 2023; an anticipated award date of January
26, 2024; an anticipated contract award date of April 26, 2024; and an
estimated $5.5 million was made available via this solicitation. During Q1
2024, the NHDOT was awarded $2.8 million as part of its Phase 1 NEVI program.
Four projects were selected to expand access and charging, and the projects
have been scheduled to begin in mid to late 2024.

 
 