# New York - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-26 16:10:53 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : New York Department of Transportation 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $175,466,514 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by [23 CFR Part
680](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-02-28/pdf/2023-03500.pdf)

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

In the initial [NEVI
plan](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/ev_deployment_plans/ny_nevi_plan.pdf),
the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), along with the New
York State Energy and Research Development Authority (NYSERDA), noted that it
is considering using NEVI funding to complement existing EV programs in the
state (e.g. Make-Ready, EVolve, and the Volkswagen Settlement), to implement
incentives for operations and maintenance, to provide capital for
installations, or to further workforce development. New York has 21
alternative fuel corridors, three of which end at an international border
crossing. In July 2023, the NYSDOT submitted the state's [NEVI plan
update](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Project/Nyserda/Files/Programs/ChargeNY/National-
Electric-Vehicle-Infrastructure-Formula-Program-Deployment-Plan.pdf). The
update further aligns and articulates the state partner agency efforts and
establishes primary and complementary goals and next steps, including how the
state will achieve AFC build out efficiently and effectively, support medium-
and heavy-duty EV charging, and light-duty EV charging beyond the AFCs. In
October 2023, the state received its [FY24 Approval
Letter](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/ev_deployment_plans/ny-
approval-letter-fy24.pdf?rev=2) from the DOT. In this letter, the FHWA granted
several exceptions for locations on I-84, I-87, I-86, and I-90. The FHWA also
determined exceptions were not needed for locations on I-87/I-287, SR-27, and
I-490.

 
 