# Idaho - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-25 15:22:54 
 ***state** : Idaho 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Idaho Office of Energy and Mineral Resources 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $29,899,106 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by [23 CFR Part
680](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-02-28/pdf/2023-03500.pdf)

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

In August 2022, Idaho released its [EV Infrastructure Baseline
Plan](https://oemr.idaho.gov/wp-content/uploads/id_nevi_plan.pdf). A few
months later, in December 2022, the state issued an RFP, seeking a firm to
complete the Siting, Feasibility, and Access Study (SFAS) for DCFC buildout.
The SFAS identifies strategic locations based on approved multifactor
selection criteria. In August 2023, an [updated state
plan](https://oemr.idaho.gov/wp-content/uploads/IdahoNEVI-
FY2024_Plan_Update_9-26-23_FINAL-REVISED.pdf) was released. The update
includes a summary of public engagement activities, an update on a proposed
RFP solicitation for two pilot sites, and the progress of the SFAS. The pilot
sites will be evaluated for the effectiveness of the procurement process,
efficiency of contracting, and issues with site selection and constitution to
inform the selection and construction of additional sites in the buildout of
AFCs. Since the release of federal guidance in June 2023, detailed location
results and siting criteria are being developed. The SFAS was scheduled to be
completed by December 2023 and will outline the approach to achieving fully
built out status on all AFCs.

A map of all designated AFC and DCFC locations in Idaho may be found
[here](https://www.arcgis.com/sharing/oauth2/authorize?client_id=arcgisonline&response_type=code&state=%7B%22portalUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fwww.arcgis.com%22%2C%22uid%22%3A%22hSks0uR7u68jre8gE3R6lbgX_oXNj7KPKIJoZM5Zx5w%22%7D&expiration=20160&locale=en-
us&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.arcgis.com%2Fhome%2Fwebmap%2Fviewer.html%3Fwebmap%3Dd7f1ce6b5a164f118f23c7abafd53df6%26extent%3D-127.2629%252C36.5075%252C-95.7321%252C50.0342&redirectToUserOrgUrl=true&code_challenge=9RO54w47gRMnwqLbDpnHySCVJklY8DKffECppr9QMFo&code_challenge_method=S256).

  

 
 