LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF IDAHO Sixty-seventh Legislature Second Regular Session - 2024  

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES  

HOUSE BILL NO. 624  

BY REVENUE AND TAXATION COMMITTEE  

# AN ACT  

2 RELATING TO THE COMMERCIAL PROPERTY ASSESSED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ACT;   
3 AMENDING TITLE 67, IDAHO CODE, BY THE ADDITION OF A NEW CHAPTER 38, TI  
4 TLE 67, IDAHO CODE, TO ESTABLISH A SHORT TITLE, TO PROVIDE LEGISLATIVE   
5 FINDINGS AND INTENT, TO DEFINE TERMS, TO AUTHORIZE C-PACE VOLUNTARY   
6 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS BY A LOCAL GOVERNMENT, TO AUTHORIZE A LOCAL GOVERN  
7 MENT TO ESTABLISH A C-PACE PROGRAM, TO PROVIDE PROCEDURES TO ESTABLISH   
8 A C-PACE PROGRAM, TO PROVIDE C-PACE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS, TO PROVIDE   
9 FOR A C-PACE APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS, TO PROVIDE FOR AUTHORIZED   
10 ACTIONS BY A PROPERTY OWNER, TO REQUIRE THE RECORDATION OF CERTAIN DOCU  
11 MENTS, TO PROVIDE FOR THE EFFECT OF RECORDING, TO PROVIDE FOR CONTRACTS   
12 WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES, TO AUTHORIZE JOINT IMPLEMENTATION OR   
13 ADMINISTRATION, TO PROHIBIT CERTAIN ACTIONS BY A LOCAL GOVERNMENT, AND   
14 TO PROHIBIT ANY USE OF FULL FAITH AND CREDIT; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY;   
15 AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.  

16 Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Idaho:  

17 SECTION 1. That Title 67, Idaho Code, be, and the same is hereby amended   
18 by the addition thereto of a NEW CHAPTER, to be known and designated as Chap  
19 ter 38, Title 67, Idaho Code, and to read as follows:  

CHAPTER 38COMMERCIAL PROPERTY ASSESSED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ACT  

22 67-3801. SHORT TITLE. This act shall be known and may be cited as the   
23 "Commercial Property Assessed Capital Expenditure Act."   
24 67-3802. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND INTENT. It is the intent of the leg  
25 islature to authorize the establishment of a commercial property assessed   
26 capital expenditure (C-PACE) program that local governments may volun  
27 tarily implement to ensure that free and willing owners of agricultural,   
28 commercial, industrial, or multifamily residential properties can obtain   
29 low-cost, long-term financing for qualifying improvements. The legisla  
30 ture finds that enabling local governments to adopt C-PACE programs serves a   
31 valid public purpose because the use of C-PACE programs will increase eco  
32 nomic development, lower insurance costs, and lower disaster and emergency   
33 response costs to local governments. C-PACE programs will also decrease   
34 energy and water costs and encourage energy and water sustainability.   
35 67-3803. DEFINITIONS. As used in this chapter:   
36 (1) "Capital provider" means a private third-party entity, including   
37 its designee, successor, and assigns, that provides or funds C-PACE financ  
38 ing, including refinancing, pursuant to this chapter.   
39 (2)(a) "Commercial property" means:  

1 (i) Privately owned commercial, industrial, or agricultural real   
2 property; or   
3 (ii) Privately owned residential real property consisting of five   
4 (5) or more dwelling units.   
5 (b) "Commercial property" includes:   
6 (i) property owned by nonprofit, charitable, or religious orga  
7 nizations; or   
8 (ii) One (1) or more owner-occupied or rental condominium units   
9 affiliated with a hotel. (3) "C-PACE program" or "program" means a commercial property assessed capital expenditure program established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (4) "Financing" means financing and refinancing for qualified projects pursuant to this chapter. (5) "Financing agreement" means a contract under which a property owner agrees to repay a capital provider for the C-PACE financing, including but not limited to details of finance charges, fees, debt servicing, accrual of interest and penalties, and terms relating to treatment of prepayment and partial payment, billing, collection, and enforcement of the C-PACE financing. (6) "Local government" means a county, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state. (7) "Program administrator" means a local government department or individual designated to administer a C-PACE program or a private independent third party designated by the local government to administer a program in conformance with the administration procedures provided in this chapter. (8) "Program guidebook" means a comprehensive document created by a local government that illustrates the applicable program and establishes appropriate guidelines, specifications, underwriting and approval criteria, and standard application forms consistent with the administration of a program pursuant to this chapter, including: (a) A form for an assessment contract between the local government and the property owner for specifying the terms of assessment under the program, financing provided by a third party, and remedies for default or foreclosure; (b) A form for a local government notice of assessment and C-PACE lien; and (c) A form for a notice of assignment of assessment and C-PACE lien between a local government and a capital provider. (9) "Project application" means an application submitted to a program to demonstrate that a proposed project qualifies for C-PACE financing and for a C-PACE assessment and lien. (10) "Property owner" means the owner or owners on the title, duly recorded, or the owner of an estate for years created pursuant to a written lease agreement or similar agreement, of a commercial property; 6 (11) "Qualified improvement" means a permanent improvement installed   
7 and affixed to commercial property and intended to:   
48 (a) Decrease energy consumption or demand through the use of efficiency   
49 technologies, products, or activities that reduce or support the reduc  
50 tion of energy consumption; (b) Support the production of renewable energy, including through the use of a product, device, or interacting group of products or devices on the customer's side of the meter that provides thermal energy or regulates temperature;   
5 (c) Decrease water consumption or demand, increase water conservation   
6 and storage, and address safe drinking water through the use of effi  
7 ciency technologies, products, or activities that reduce or support the   
8 reduction of water consumption or increase the storage of water;   
9 (d) Allow for the reduction or elimination of lead from water that may   
10 be used for drinking or cooking; or (e) Increase water or wastewater resilience, including through storm retrofits, flood mitigation, and stormwater management, or increase wind resistance, energy storage, microgrids, or structures, measures, or other improvements that reduce land use impact, and other resilience projects approved by the local government.   
16 (12) "Qualified project" means a project approved by the program ad  
17 ministrator, involving the installation or modification of a qualified   
18 improvement, including new construction or the adaptive reuse of eligible   
19 property with a qualified improvement. Qualified improvements installed   
20 and operational no more than three (3) years prior to the date of application   
21 are eligible as qualified projects. (13) "Region" means a geographical area eligible for a C-PACE program as determined by a local government pursuant to section 67-3805, Idaho Code. (14) "Special assessment" means a voluntary assessment imposed by a local government on real property located within the boundaries of a C-PACE program. 67-3804. C-PACE VOLUNTARY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS BY A LOCAL GOVERNMENT. (1) A local government may impose a voluntary special assessment to repay the financing of qualified projects on commercial property located in a region. (2) A local government shall not impose an assessment to repay the financing of the purchase or installation of products or devices not permanently affixed to commercial property. (3) A local government may impose a voluntary special assessment only after a project application is approved. The special assessment must be created through a written contract between the local government and the property owner of the property to be assessed.   
38 (4) Prior to entering into the written assessment contract, the prop  
39 erty owner shall obtain and furnish to the local government a written state  
40 ment, executed and acknowledged by an authorized officer of each holder of a   
41 mortgage or deed of trust on the property securing indebtedness in the offi  
42 cer's sole and absolute discretion, consenting to the assessment and indi  
43 cating that the assessment does not constitute an event of default under the   
44 mortgage or deed of trust.   
45 67-3805. C-PACE PROGRAM -- AUTHORIZATION. (1) A local government may  

46 establish a C-PACE program and exercise all powers granted pursuant to this   
47 chapter.  

6 (3) A local government that establishes a program may enter into written agreements with a property owner to impose voluntary assessments to re  
8 pay such owner's financing of a qualified project on the owner's property, provided that the conditions of section 67-3804, Idaho Code, are met.  

8   
9   
10 (4) A local government may administer a program or delegate administra  
11 tion of a program pursuant to section 67-3806(4), Idaho Code.   
12 (5) If the program provides for third-party administration, then the   
13 local government official authorized to enter into a written contract with   
14 a property owner pursuant to section 67-3806(1)(a)(viii), Idaho Code, shall   
15 also enter into a written contract with the party that administers the pro  
16 gram. The contract must require the third party to reimburse the local gov  
17 ernment for costs associated with monitoring the program, imposing the as  
18 sessment, and billing and collecting payments on behalf of the third party.   
19 (6) The financing for assessments imposed may include but is not lim  
20 ited to:   
21 (a) The cost of materials and labor necessary for the installation or   
22 modification of a qualified improvement;   
23 (b) Permit fees;   
24 (c) Inspection fees;   
25 (d) Lender fees;   
26 (e) Program application and administrative fees;   
27 (f) Project development and engineering fees;   
28 (g) Interest reserves;   
29 (h) Capitalized interest, in an amount determined by the owner of the   
30 commercial property and the third party providing financing pursuant to   
31 this chapter; and   
32 (i) Other fees or costs incurred by the property owner incidental or an  
33 cillary to the installation, modification, or improvement on a specific   
34 or pro rata basis, as determined by the local government.   
35 (7) The written assessment contract constitutes written notice to the   
36 property owner that the owner may be responsible for the payment of any re  
37 maining principal balance of the assessment upon the refinance or sale of the   
38 property unless the remaining principal balance is assumed by the acquiring   
39 property owner. The local government shall require each property owner to   
40 acknowledge, in writing, the notice as part of the execution of the contract.   
41 67-3806. PROCEDURES TO ESTABLISH A C-PACE PROGRAM. (1) To establish a   
42 C-PACE program pursuant to this chapter, the local government must:   
43 (a) Adopt a resolution of intent that includes:   
44 (i) A finding that the financing of qualified projects through   
45 special assessments is a valid public purpose;   
46 (ii) A statement that the local government intends to authorize   
47 direct financing between property owners and capital providers as   
48 the means to finance qualified projects;  

1 (iii) A statement that the local government intends to authorize   
2 special assessments, entered into voluntarily by a property owner   
3 with the local government by means of the written assessment con  
4 tract, to repay the financing for qualified projects available to   
5 property owners;   
6 (iv) A description of the types of projects that may qualify for   
7 voluntary special assessments;   
8 (v) A description of the boundaries of the region;   
9 (vi) A description of the proposed arrangements for administra  
10 tion of the program according to the provisions of this chapter;   
11 (vii) A statement of the time and place for a public hearing on the   
12 proposed program as required in paragraph (b) of this subsection;   
13 and   
14 (viii) A statement designating the local official, department,   
15 or employee charged with administering the program and executing   
16 written agreements with property owners to impose voluntary as  
17 sessments on a property. (b) Hold a hearing for the public to comment on the proposed program as outlined in the resolution of intent; and (c) Following such hearing, adopt a resolution establishing the program and its terms. (2) Subject to the terms of the resolution establishing the program as provided in subsection (1)(c) of this section, the local government may amend a program by resolution. (3) The enactment of a resolution establishing a program and its terms shall allow a local government to place voluntary special assessments on property without any additional action by the local government. (4) A local government may: (a) Hire and set the compensation of a program administrator and program staff; or (b) Delegate or contract for professional or administrative services necessary to administer the program on a nonexclusive basis.   
33 (5) A local government is authorized to impose service fees to offset   
34 the actual and reasonable costs of administering a program. A fee of no more   
35 than five hundred dollars ( $\$500$ ) may be charged at the time of a property   
36 owner's application. In addition, a servicing fee for approved applications   
37 may be calculated as one percent ( $1\%$ ) of the total amount financed, not to ex  
38 ceed fifty thousand dollars (\$50,000).   
9 67-3807. C-PACE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS. The terms of a program estab  
0 lished pursuant to section 67-3806(3), Idaho Code, shall include: (1) Appropriate eligibility factors, including certification by the property owner that:   
43 (a) The property owner requesting to participate in the program:   
44 (i) Is the legal owner of the benefited property;   
45 (ii) Is current on mortgage and property tax payments; and   
46 (iii) Is not insolvent or in bankruptcy proceedings; and   
47 (b) The title of the benefited property is not in dispute;   
48 (2) A requirement that:  

1 (a) The total debt secured by the property, including the C-PACE as  
2 sessment, does not exceed ninety percent ( $90\%$ ) of the fair market value   
3 of the property as complete or as stabilized;   
4 (b) The C-PACE assessment does not exceed:   
5 (i) In the case of new construction, thirty-five percent ( $35\%$ ) of   
6 the fair market value of the property as complete or as stabilized;   
7 or   
8 (ii) In the case of a retrofit of existing property, twenty-five   
9 percent ( $25\%$ ) of the fair market value of the property as completed   
10 or as stabilized; and   
11 (c) The determination of fair market value shall be established by a   
12 qualified appraisal completed no more than twelve (12) months prior to   
13 the time of application;   
14 (3) A description of the types of qualified projects that may be subject   
15 to special assessments;   
16 (4) A statement identifying the local government official authorized   
17 to enter into and execute written contracts on behalf of the local govern  
18 ment;   
19 (5) A statement that the period of the special assessment must not ex  
20 ceed the weighted average of the useful life of the qualified project that is   
21 the basis for the assessment;   
22 (6) A statement explaining the manner in which property will be as  
23 sessed and how assessments will be collected; and   
24 (7) The procedures for billing and collecting voluntary special as  
25 sessments and remedies for enforcement of a delinquent special assessment.   
26 67-3808. C-PACE APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS. (1) A local govern  
27 ment participating in a C-PACE program must establish the form and manner of   
28 a C-PACE application and review process to evaluate project applications for   
29 C-PACE financing. At a minimum, an application shall require that:   
30 (a) An applicant must demonstrate that the project provides one (1) or   
31 more of the following benefits to the public:   
32 (i) Energy or water resource conservation;   
33 (ii) Reduced public health costs or risk; or   
34 (iii) Reduced public emergency response cost or risk;   
35 (b) For an existing building, an applicant must provide an energy anal  
36 ysis by a licensed engineering firm, engineer, or other qualified pro  
37 fessional listed in the program guidebook and:   
38 (i) Where energy or water usage improvements are proposed, a   
39 statement by the author of the analysis that the proposed quali  
40 fied improvements will result in either more efficient use or con  
41 servation of energy or water or the addition of renewable sources   
42 of energy or water; or   
43 (ii) Where resilience improvements are proposed, a statement by   
44 the author of the analysis that the qualified improvements will   
45 result in improved resilience; and   
46 (c) For new construction, an applicant must provide certification   
47 by a licensed engineering firm, engineer, or other qualified profes  
48 sional stating that the proposed qualified improvements will enable the   
49 project to:  

(i) Exceed the current building code's requirements for one (1) or more of the following:  

1. Energy efficiency;   
2. Water efficiency;   
3. Renewable energy; or   
4. Renewable water; or  

(ii) Meet or exceed resilience standards for the local government's building codes or, if none are available, compliance with a nationally available and recognized resiliency standard.  

10 (2) A local government shall establish a process for reviewing and   
11 approving applications for financing. The local government may require a   
12 capital provider to certify to the local government, in accordance with a   
13 process approved by the local government, that the property owner and the   
14 project meet the requirements of this chapter and the program guidebook and   
15 qualify for financing pursuant to this chapter.  

(3) The local government's duties shall also include:  

(a) Execution and recording of the written assessment contract between the property owner and a duly authorized official of the local government, as well as execution and recording of the local government notice of assessment and C-PACE lien; and   
(b) Execution and recording of the notice of assessment and C-PACE lien, assignment of the assessment agreement to the capital provider, and notice of assignment of assessment and C-PACE lien to the capital provider.  

25 (4) The local government may bill, collect, and enforce the special as  
26 sessment in the same time and same manner as a property tax, or the local   
27 government may assign to the capital provider providing financing the sole   
28 responsibility for billing, collection, and enforcement of the special as  
29 sessment and lien. The decision of the local government to delegate must be   
30 made no later than the execution of the written assessment contract. After   
31 one (1) year from the date of any delinquency, enforcement of a delinquent   
32 assessment payment by a capital provider shall be made in the same manner as   
33 that prescribed in chapter 15, title 45, Idaho Code, for a deed of trust, ex  
34 cept assessments not yet due may not be accelerated or eliminated by foreclo  
35 sure of the past due amounts of the lien, or a property tax foreclosure or any   
36 other foreclosure of an indebtedness on the property. In any enforcement ac  
37 tion by either the local government or capital provider, any outstanding and   
38 delinquent local property taxes at the time of the enforcement action must be   
39 satisfied prior to the delinquent amounts of the special assessment.  

(5) The local government, its officers, and employees are not liable at law or equity for actions taken pursuant to this section, except in cases of gross negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct.  

43 (6) After an approved project is completed, an applicant shall provide   
44 to the local government written verification, as defined in the program   
45 guidebook, stating that the qualified project was properly completed and is   
46 operating as intended.   
7 67-3809. AUTHORIZED ACTIONS. The proposed arrangements for financing   
8 a qualified project may authorize the property owner to:   
1 (1) Directly purchase the equipment and materials for the installation   
2 or modification of a qualified improvement; or   
3 (2) Contract directly, including through a lease, power purchase   
4 agreement, or other service contract, for the equipment and materials used   
5 in the installation or modification of a qualified improvement.   
6 67-3810. RECORDING OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS REQUIRED. (1) A local govern  
7 ment that authorizes financing through special assessments pursuant to this   
8 chapter shall:   
9 (a) File a written notice of assessment and C-PACE lien in the records   
10 of the office of the county register of deeds of the county in which the   
11 property is located. The notice must contain:   
12 (i) The amount of the assessment;   
13 (ii) The legal description of the property;   
14 (iii) The name of each property owner;   
15 (iv) A copy of the written assessment contract; and   
16 (v) A reference to this chapter authorizing the placement of the   
17 assessment and C-PACE lien on the property;   
18 (b) File and record each C-PACE lien in the real property records of the   
19 county in which the property is located. The recording must contain:   
20 (i) The legal description of the property;   
21 (ii) The name of each property owner;   
22 (iii) The date on which the lien was created;   
23 (iv) The principal amount of the lien; and   
24 (v) The term of the lien; and   
25 (c) Record the executed assignment of the assessment agreement, notice   
26 of assignment of assessment, and C-PACE lien.   
27 (2) A local government may delegate the recording responsibilities set   
28 forth in subsection (1) of this section to the capital provider receiving the   
29 assignment. If billing, collection, and enforcement are delegated to the   
30 capital provider, a copy of the assignment and delegation shall be recorded   
31 in addition to the requirements of subsection (1) of this section.   
32 67-3811. EFFECT OF RECORDING. (1) A special assessment and any inter  
33 est or penalties on the assessment:   
34 (a) Is a first and prior lien against the commercial property on which   
35 the assessment is imposed, from the date on which the notice of special   
36 assessment is recorded pursuant to section 67-3810, Idaho Code, until   
37 the assessment, interest, and penalty is paid; and   
38 (b) Is junior to any lien for any other local government property tax or   
39 ad valorem tax.   
40 (2) The lien runs with the land, and any portion of the assessment under   
41 the assessment contract that is not yet due must not be accelerated or elimi  
42 nated by foreclosure of a property tax lien or any other foreclosure.   
43 (3) A provision of a deed of trust, mortgage, or other agreement be  
44 tween a lienholder and a property owner providing for the acceleration of   
45 any payment under the deed of trust, mortgage, or agreement solely as the   
46 result of entering into an agreement to finance an assessment authorized by   
47 this chapter is unenforceable as to an executed consent pursuant to section   
1 67-3804(4), Idaho Code. A lienholder or loan servicer may increase the   
2 monthly amount held in escrow as required to annually pay the assessment.   
3 67-3812. CONTRACTS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES. The local gov  
4 ernment implementing a C-PACE program pursuant to this chapter may contract   
5 with another local governmental entity, including a county assessor of prop  
6 erty, to perform the duties of the local government relating to the billing,   
7 collection, enforcement, and remittance of special assessments imposed pur  
8 suant to this chapter.   
9 67-3813. JOINT IMPLEMENTATION OR ADMINISTRATION. (1) A combination   
10 of local governments may agree to jointly implement or administer a program   
11 pursuant to this chapter.   
12 (2) If two (2) or more local governments implement a program jointly,   
13 then a single public hearing held jointly by the cooperating local govern  
14 ments is sufficient to satisfy section 67-3806(1)(b), Idaho Code.   
15 (3) One (1) or more local governments may contract with a third party,   
16 including another local government, to administer a C-PACE program on a   
17 nonexclusive basis.   
18 (4) If one (1) or more local governments contract with a third party,   
19 including another local government, to administer a C-PACE program, then   
20 other qualified third parties must also be granted the right to enter into a   
21 contract to administer the program on the same terms.   
22 67-3814. PROHIBITED ACTIONS. A local government that establishes a   
23 region, as defined in section 67-3803, Idaho Code, shall not:   
24 (1) Make the issuance of a permit, license, or other authorization from   
25 the local government to a person who owns property in the region contingent   
26 on the person entering into a written contract to repay the financing of a   
27 qualified project through special assessments pursuant to this chapter; or   
28 (2) Otherwise compel a person who owns property in the region to enter   
29 into a written contract to repay the financing of a qualified project through   
30 special assessments.   
31 67-3815. NO FULL FAITH AND CREDIT. The state or any local government   
32 shall not use public funds to fund or repay a loan between a capital provider   
33 and a property owner. This chapter does not pledge, offer, or encumber   
34 the full faith and credit of a local government. A local government shall   
35 not pledge, offer, or encumber its full faith and credit for a lien amount   
36 through a C-PACE program.   
37 SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY. The provisions of this act are hereby declared   
38 to be severable and if any provision of this act or the application of such   
39 provision to any person or circumstance is declared invalid for any reason,   
40 such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of   
41 this act.   
42 SECTION 3. An emergency existing therefor, which emergency is hereby   
43 declared to exist, this act shall be in full force and effect on and after  

44 July 1, 2024.  