# Montana Commercial PACE Financing Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-17 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-18 19:16:42 
 ***state** : Montana 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : PACE Financing 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Nonprofit, Agricultural, Multifamily Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2022-01-01 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Montana Facility Finance Authority 
 ## Summary : 
 Property-Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing effectively allows property
owners to borrow money to pay for energy improvements. The amount borrowed is
typically repaid via a special assessment on the property over a period of
years. In 2021, [S.B.
147](https://laws.leg.mt.gov/legprd/LAW0203W$BSRV.ActionQuery?P_SESS=20211&P_BLTP_BILL_TYP_CD=SB&P_BILL_NO=147&P_BILL_DFT_NO=&P_CHPT_NO=&Z_ACTION=Find&P_ENTY_ID_SEQ2=&P_SBJT_SBJ_CD=&P_ENTY_ID_SEQ=)
authorized the creation of a Commercial PACE (C-PACE) program to be
administered by the Montana Facility Finance Authority (MFFA). To be eligible,
properties must be located in a Montana city, county, town, or a consolidated
city-town that has or will establish a C-PACE District. C-PACE District
designation is tracked by the MFFA and may be viewed
[here](https://lastbestpace.com/Program-Details/Map).

The C-PACE program, or Last Best PACE Program, qualifies projects eligible for
private sector financing through low-cost, long-term loans to pay for water
conservation, energy efficiency improvements, and renewable energy retrofits
for private sector owners of commercial, industrial, non-profit, agricultural,
and multi-family properties with four or more dwelling units. The Last Best
PACE Program may cover up to 100% of eligible project costs with a payback
period of 20+ years. Loans are secured by a tax assessment on the property
that is voluntarily imposed and may be amortized over the projected life of
the energy improvement. Projects greater than $100,000 may be eligible, for
projects smaller than $100,000 C-PACE may not be the most cost effective
option.

 
 