# North Dakota - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-18 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-25 18:39:02 
 ***state** : North Dakota 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : North Dakota Department of Transportation 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $25,952,484 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by <a
href="https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-02-28/pdf/2023-03500.pdf'>23
CFR Part 680

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

The North Dakota Department of Transportation (NDDOT) will implement its [NEVI
plan](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/ev_deployment_plans/nd_nevi_plan.pdf)
over two phases. Phase I will focus on the alternative fuel corridors (AFCs)
along I-94 and I-29 from fiscal year 2022 through 2024. Phase II will focus on
other locations including non-AFC-designated highways in FY 2025 and 2026.
NDDOT anticipates 15 to 20 NEVI-compliant charging locations will require
development for its AFCs, when moving to Phase II, the Plan cites both low EV
adoption and rural nature as potential factors for under-utilization. In June
2023, the state released its [updated FY 2024
plan](https://www.dot.nd.gov/sites/www/files/documents/construction-and-
planning/North-Dakota-EV-Plan.pdf). The updates included information on
continued stakeholder engagement with power utilities, energy producers,
automotive industry alliance, and EV groups. However, the main focus was
getting statutory approval from state legislators in the form of [S.B.
2063](https://ndlegis.gov/assembly/68-2023/regular/bill-
overview/bo2063.html?bill_year=2023&bill_number=2063), which passed in April
2023. In June 2024, NDDOT released the first
[NOFO](https://www.dot.nd.gov/sites/www/files/documents/Grants%20and%20funding%20program/State%20Grants/state-
grants/NEVI/NDDOT%20NEVI%20NOFO.pdf) package with proposals due August 9,
2024.

 
 