# Wyoming - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-19 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-25 20:34:24 
 ***state** : Wyoming 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Wyoming Department of Transportation 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $26,780,026 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by [23 CFR Part
680](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-02-28/pdf/2023-03500.pdf)

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

The Wyoming Department of Transportation's (DOT) [deployment
plan](https://www.dot.state.wy.us/files/live/sites/wydot/files/shared/Planning/Electric%20Vehicles/2022%20NEVI%20Plan/Wyoming%20Nevi%20Plan%20Update%2019%20Sep%202022.pdf)
stipulates that Wyomingites are currently not adopting the EV technology in
enough numbers to require NEVI program station densities, with the greatest
potential users being out-of-state travelers. The plan limits the number of
additional NEVI-sized stations installed along interstates and recommends
remaining funds be used for fuel corridor routes to State and National parks.
The NEVI plan details several highlights including the use of matching funds
from private or local jurisdictions, with no matching state funds to be used.
The DOT will operate funds through a series of RFPs for biddings to construct,
maintain, and operate stations along AFCs. The state deployment plan assumes
that local jurisdictions and businesses are better suited to determine the
size, frequency, location, and capacity of stations for their own needs and
does not require that the stations must meet NEVI criteria. The plan will fund
larger stations if local jurisdictions deem it appropriate. Deployment of the
plan will result in the construction of 911 miles of EV charging corridors.
The state's [Final Year Two
Plan](https://www.dot.state.wy.us/files/live/sites/wydot/files/shared/Planning/Electric%20Vehicles/2023%20NEVI%20Plan/WYDOT_NEVI_Year2_10_26_23.pdf)
was submitted in October 2023. In winter 2023/2024 WYDOT issued a
[RFI](https://www.dot.state.wy.us/files/live/sites/wydot/files/shared/Planning/Electric%20Vehicles/NEVI%20RFI%20responses/WYDOT%20RFI%20-%20blank.pdf)
to gauge interest from private businesses or local governments who intend to
apply for NEVI Funds.

 
 