# ！ Toll bill scam messages  

Do not click unknown links in emails or texts. Good To Go! only requests payment on MyGoodToGo.com. Log in to MyGoodToGo.com to check your account information.  

# Washington State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment  

Explore the Washington State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment.  

NEVl funding opportunity  

We are monitoring the activity related to federal funding of transportation projects and programs. We are coordinating with our federal agency partners for clarification. We will share updates as we receive more information; thank you for your partnership and patience.  

# NEVl round 1  

The NEVI Notice of Funding Opportunity and Request for Proposals (PDF 682KB) application period closed on January 31, 2025.  

●View the List of Exhibits (68.2KB), Grant Agreement (4.6MB), and Site Host Certification Form (56KB).   
· View the funding opportunity webinar recording.   
·View the question-and-answer document (PDF 409KB)   
· View the Small Business Enterprises, Public Works Small Enterprises, Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and Veteran Enterprises webinar recording and partnering list (PDF 123KB).  

# NEVl state plan and annual updates  

· In August 2024, WSDOT submitted the Washington State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Updat (PDF 3.7MB) to the Joint Office of Energy and Transportation.   
· In July 2023, WSDOT submitted the Washington State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Update (PDF 7MB) to the Joint Office of Energy and Transportation.   
· In July 2022, WSDOT submitted the Washington State Plan for EV Infrastructure Deployment (PDF 2MB) for the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program to the Joint Office of Energy and Transportation.  

# Get involved  

· Subscribe to email updates through GovDelivery.   
· If you missed our public listening sessions during plan development, feel free to review the recordings.  

# NEVl formula program  

· The National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program was authorized under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which was enacted as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.  

·NEVI formula program questions and answers   
·The $\$5$ billion NEVl Formula Program will provide dedicated funding to states to strategically deploy electrical vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure and create an interconnected network that supports data collection, access and reliability.   
·Washington's portion is $\$71M$ total over fiveyears.  

# Federal program goals  

·Put the U.S. on the path to a network of 5oo,0o0 EV chargers.   
·Accelerate the adoption of EVs.   
· Reduce greenhouse gas emissions.   
· Help the U.s. lead global transportation electrification efforts.   
·Build out alternative fuel corridors.  

# Plan-supported activities  

· Zero-Emission Vehicles Mapping and Forecasting Tool (ZEV-MFT): WSDOT must develop a public mapping and forecasting tool that shows the locations of charging and refueling infrastructure. View the report: Implementing a Mapping and Forecasting Tool for Zero-Emission Vehicle Infrastructure in Washington (PDF 1.8MB). ·Zero-Emission Vehicle Infrastructure Partnerships.  

Contact information Comments nevi.programk@wsdot.wa.gov  

# Sections in Statewide plans  

Active Transportation Plan Community Engagement Plan Cooperative automated transportation Freight plans   
? Project delivery plan Public transportation plans Safety Rest Area Strategic Plan State planning and research work program Strategic Highway Safety Plan: Target Zero Transportation Carbon Reduction Strategy   
·Washington State Plan for Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Washington Transportation Plan  

# Slow down on ice and snow.  

It's easier to skid or lose control traveling at higher speeds. Give yourself more time to stop.  

# Carry chains, practice installing them.  

Winter conditions could mean chains are required on your route. Practice putting them on your vehicle ahead of time.  

Pack your winter car kit.carry extra supplies like warm clothing, ice scraper and brush,jumper cables and other emergency items.  

# Sign up for email updates  

Subscribe to customized emails to help you know before you go. Receive current traffic conditions, mountain pass reports, construction updates and more.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Our site</td><td>Quick links</td><td>ConnectwithWSDOT</td><td>Gethelp in your</td></tr><tr><td>Contact</td><td>WSDOTTrafficApp</td><td>F Facebook</td><td>language</td></tr><tr><td>Disability</td><td>WA.gov</td><td>×x</td><td>Soporte Espanol</td></tr><tr><td>access concerns</td><td>OfficeoftheGovernor</td><td>Instagram</td><td>中文帮助</td></tr><tr><td>Title VI</td><td>Transportation Commission</td><td>小 TikTok</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Site index</td><td>Good To Go! Tolling</td><td>in Linkedln</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>D YouTube</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>WSDOTBlog</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>WSDOTFlickr</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>RSS Feed</td><td></td></tr></table></body></html>  