# Washington - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-19 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-25 20:26:05 
 ***state** : Washington 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Washington Department of Transportation 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $70,865,271 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by [23 CFR Part
680](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-02-28/pdf/2023-03500.pdf)

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) developed the
state's [NEVI
plan](https://wsdot.wa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-08/Electricvehicle-plan-
infastructuredeployment.pdf). WSDOT will initially prioritize building out the
state’s north/south and east/west interstates, I-5 and I-90, respectively.
Secondary priorities for investments include completing the I-82/I-182 and US
395 followed by US 101 and US 195. WSDOT will then consider additional
chargers on the highest-volume corridors, and in higher-dependency areas.
Other private and public investments in EV infrastructure will also focus on
high-usage corridors and centers. Future infrastructure deployments will be
guided by the state’s Zero-Emission Vehicle Mapping and Forecasting Tool (ZEV-
MFT), which is under development. A [plan
update](https://wsdot.wa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-09/WSDOT-NEVI-Plan-
Update.pdf) was published in July 2023. This updated plan is a streamlined
version of the initial plan with several changes including revisions to the
process to identify, quantify, and measure benefits to disadvantaged
communities, and information on interagency working groups established since
the original plan's publication.

 
 