# Alaska - National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-06-28 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-06-28 21:25:22 
 ***state** : Alaska 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Grant Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial 
 ***start date*** : 2022-10-01 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2026-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Alaska Energy Authority 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***budget*** : $52,415,294 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Varies, grants are awarded competitively

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by 23 CFR Part 680

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Projects must meet the standards established by 23 CFR Part 680

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note:[The Federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA)](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ58/PLAW-117publ58.pdf#page=993)
created the [National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Grant
Program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/nevi/) with a total budget of $5
billion. Each state was allocated a share of that total to help build out a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations along designated
alternative fuel corridors (AFCs). With some limited exceptions, EV charging
stations funded through the NEVI program should be spaced 50 miles apart and
within one mile of the Interstate exit or highway._**

The Alaska Department of Transportation & Public Facilities is the designated
lead agency for NEVI, but administration of the program is being led by the
Alaska Energy Authority. The two agencies submitted Alaska's initial [NEVI
Plan](https://www.akenergyauthority.org/Portals/0/Electric%20Vehicles/2022.07.29%20State%20of%20Alaska%20NEVI%20Plan%20\(Final\).pdf?ver=2022-06-29-152835-320)
to the federal Joint Office of Energy and Transportation on August 1, 2022,
and its [FY2024
Update](https://www.akenergyauthority.org/Portals/0/Electric%20Vehicles/2023.07.31%20FY24%20Alaska%20NEVI%20Plan%20\(Final\).pdf?ver=wzbivGy2EFMmDFeNXt6cyg%3d%3d)
was submitted on August 1, 2023.

Within the first two years, Alaska plans to build out a network of fast
chargers to connect Anchorage to Fairbanks, which is the state's only
designated alternative fuel corridor. None of the corridor's existing chargers
meet NEVI standards, so they will all need to be replaced. Phase 2 will build
out fast chargers along non-AFC highways and the Alaska Marine Highway System,
Phase 3 will install (Level 2) chargers in rural hub communities, and Phase 4
will develop (Level 2 and fast) charging sites in urban and "destination"
locations.  

The AEA released the [Phase 1 Request for
Applications](https://www.akenergyauthority.org/What-We-Do/Renewable-Energy-
and-Energy-Efficiency-Programs/Electric-Vehicles/National-Electric-Vehicle-
Infrastructure-Formula-
Program#:~:text=Through%20the%20NEVI%20program%2C%20Alaska,and%20urban%20areas%20across%20Alaska.)
on March 1, 2023; applications were due by May 15, 2023. Awards were announced
in September 2023 for nine sites. Construction began in spring 2024.  

 
 