Projects subject to Article 80 B – Large Project, 80 C – Planned Development Area, and 80 - D Institutional Master Plan review shell analyze near and long-term project impacts on the surrounding environment and Boston’s greenhouse gas inventory, including consideration of future climate conditions. Utilizing the most recent guidance, tools, and checklists identified or provided by the Boston Planning & Development Agency (“BPDA”), project proponents shell consider how changes in climate and environmental conditions will affect the proposed project’s environmental impacts, including greenhouse gas emissions, the survivability, integrity and safety of the proposed project and of its inhabitants, and ways by which to avoid, eliminate, or mitigate any adverse impacts including how the project will contribute to the City’s goal of carbon-neutrality by 2050.  

Climate change conditions should be defined to include, but not be limited to, sea-level rise, higher annual temperatures, more frequent and longer extreme heat events, increased precipitation, more sever rain events, and increased greenhouse gas concentrations. Project proponents shall include analysis of secondary and cascading impacts, including potential for interruptions of utility electrical, gas, and telecommunication systems, and disruptions of transportation systems and networks.  

A. With the Project Notification Form (“PNF”), Notice of Project Change (“NPC”), or other initial filing, project proponents shall complete and submit the most appropriate Boston Climate Change Preparedness and Resiliency Checklist (“Climate Change Checklist”) and other analyses and descriptions deemed necessary by the Director of the BPDA.  For any environmental impacts related to climate change that are identified, project proponents shall describe all immediate and long-term planning, design, and construction strategies that will be employed to avoid, eliminate, or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and any adverse impacts. Consideration of environmental impacts due to climate change should not be limited to those listed above or in the Climate Change Checklist.   
B. Project proponents shall incorporate climate change mitigation, preparedness and resiliency strategies into all relevant components of the physical project, including building, site, infrastructure, transportation, environmental protection, urban design, landscape, sustainable development, historic resources, and tidelands.   
C. With the Design / Building Permit filing, the project proponent shall submit an updated Climate Change Checklist, along with supporting analysis and document the strategies that will be employed to avoid, eliminate or mitigate any adverse environmental impacts due to future climate conditions.   
D. With the Construction / Certificate of Occupancy filing, the project proponent shall submit an updated Climate Change Checklist along with supporting analysis and document that the identified strategies for avoiding, eliminating or mitigating greenhouse gas emissions and any adverse environmental impacts due to future climate conditions have been incorporated into the built project.   
E. With each filing, the Climate Change Checklist and supporting analyses and responses will be reviewed by the Boston Interagency Green Building Committee (“IGBC”) for compliance with the City’s climate change preparedness and resiliency goals and objectives.  The IGBC will notify the project proponent of any review comments, response requirements, and of compliance.  The project proponent must provide a response to any comments or requirements and an updated Climate Change Checklist as required by the IGBC.   
F. The IGBC will advise the BPDA Director on project compliance with these guidelines, the Climate Change Checklist, and requested responses, and the Director shall rely on the IGBC’s determinations.  