(a) Creation and Purpose. There is hereby created a Sustainable Building Certification Refund Grant Program ("Grant Program"). The purpose of the Grant Program is to establish a temporary source of funds to be used to create an incentive to achieve sustainable building certification through refiunds of the actual cost of such certification, upto $\$1,000$ for each certification. The Grant Program is intended to be a start-up Grant Program to encourage initial participation in the Sustainable Building Program, Chapter 327, Ordinance Code, and shall terminate upon disbursal of any funds appropriated by the City Council for this Grant Program or upon final action on all applications received prior to December 31, 2013, whichever shall first occur.  

(b) Definitions. For purposes of this Grant Program, the following terms, words and   
phrases shall have the following meanings: i. Alternative sustainable building certification system means a system adopted by the Environmental Protection Board for establishing sustainable building certification standards in addition to, and as an altemative to, LEED certification. GBI's Green Globes rating system, or FGBC green building standards. ii. Department means the Environmental and Compliance Department   
ili. FGBC means the Florida Green Building Coalition.   
iv. GBI's Green Globes mean the Green Building Initiative's Green Globes rating system. V. LEED means the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Rating System ofthe U.S. Green Building Council.   
V1 Sustainable building means generally the resource efficient design, construction, and operation of buildings by employing environmentally sensible construction practices, systems, and materials. Sustainable building also means an office, residential or civic structure which has obtained sustainable building certification.   
V11 Sustainable building certification means the final designation awarded to a program participant for a particular project for satisfying all requirements associated with LEED certification, GBI's Green Globes rating system, FGBC's standards, or other certification systems approved by the Environmental Protection Board.   
V111 Third party rater means an independent third party certified by the USGBC, FGBC, GBI or an altemative sustainable building certification system as a sustainable building rater qualified to verify that the building project has satisfied all ofthe requirements associated with the standards applicable to a particular project, USGBC means the U.S. Green Building Council.  

(b) Responsibility. The Grant Program shall be administered through the Environmental Protection Board, which shallreview and approve disbursements from such funds as may be appropriated by the Council for this Grant Program.  

() Application for certification refund grants. Property owmers desiring to participate in this Grant Program shall submit an application to the Environmental Protection Board on a fom prescribed by that Board or its staff. Application shall be made following certification of sustainable building status and shall be accompanied by proof of certification and evidence of the actual costs associated with obtaining such certification. Certification shall be made by an independent third party rater that the owner has received sustainable building certification for the buildings that are the subject ofthe application. Grants pursuant to this Grant Program shall be approved by the Department and shall be for reimbursement of the actual cost of obtaining sustainable building certification, which costs may include fees for application and inspection for certification, but shall not include cost of any construction necessary to achieve sustainable building certification or permitting or other fees associated with such construction. Grants made pursuant to this Grant Program shall be limited to $\$10000$ for each certification.  

(d) Effective Date. Only projects that were certified as of January 1, 2009 are eligible forarefund grant.  

(e) Applicability. This Grant Program is applicable to the entire General Services District.  