# Wisconsin - Home Efficiency Rebate (HER) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-08-02 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-08-02 00:00:00 
 ***state** : Wisconsin 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Focus on Energy 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $149 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Varies based on modeled energy savings, household income level, and single
family or multifamily status.

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home Efficiency
Rebates (HER) Program. The IRA established the main parameters for this
program, but allowed the states to customize the program to meet their state-
specific needs. The program is designed to provide rebates for whole-home
energy improvements. Actual rebate amounts are determined by the level of
modeled or measured energy savings and the income level of the applicant. See
summary below and program website for complete details._**

Rebate values vary based on income level and modeled energy savings.
Multifamily buildings can qualify a whole building for low or moderate income
if at least 50% of occupied units meet those thresholds.

Federal guidance requires states to offer retroactive rebates for Home
Efficiency Rebate (HOMES) projects initiated on or after August 16, 2022, that
meet certain requirements. To be eligible for retroactive HOMES program
rebates, projects will need to meet ALL final federal and state program
requirements, unless otherwise stated below.

 
 