# 3.13.1 General  

a. Landscape requirements are as required in Article 9 of this Code and the City of Miami Tree Protection regulations of Chapter 17 of the City Code, except that where this Code is more restrictive than the Tree Protection regulations, this Code shall apply.   
b. All new Buildings of more than 50,000 square feet of Habitable Rooms or Habitable Space in the T5, T6, CI and CS zones shall be at a minimum certified as Silver by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards or equivalent standards adopted or approved by the City.  

1. At the time of Building Permit application, the owner shall submit:  

(a) Proof of registration with the Green Building Certification Institute, or equivalent agency; (b) A signed and sealed affidavit from a LEED Accredited Professional, or applicable designation, stating that the proposed Building is designed to achieve the required certification; and (c) A LEED Scorecard, or equivalent document, identifying anticipated credits to be achieved.  

2. At the time of Certificate of Occupancy application, the owner shall submit:  

(a) Proof of certification by the Green Building Certification Institute, or equivalent agency;   
(b) A bond posted in a form acceptable to the City, in the amount indicated below; (i) Two percent $(2\%)$ of the total cost of construction for a 50,000 - 100,000 square feet Building; (ii) Three percent $(3\%)$ of the total cost of construction for a 100,001 - 200,000 square fee Building; (iii) Four percent $(4\%)$ of the total cost of construction for any Building greater than 200,00 square feet; or  

(c) Proof of partial compliance from the Green Building Certification Institute, or applicable agency, which demonstrates the credits presently achieved. In addition, a prorated portion of the full bond amount, as indicated in subsection 2(b) above, shall be posted based on the number of remaining credits needed to meet minimum certification requirements. The bond amount to be posted shall be calculated as follows: (credits remaining for certification / credits required for certification) $\times$ full bond amount $=$ prorated bond amount  

3. Forfeiture of Bond  

A bond under this Section 3.13.1 shall be forfeited to the City in the event that the Building does not meet the for LEED Silver certification or applicable certification. The City will draw down on the bond funds upon failure of the owner to submit proof of LEED Silver certification in a form acceptable to the City within one (1) year of the City’s issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy for the Building. If required certification is not achieved but a majority of the credits have been verified, the owner shall forfeit a portion of the bond based on any outstanding credits which shall be calculated as follows:  

(credits remaining for certification / credits required for certification) $\times$ full bond amount $=$ bond  

amount forfeited  

If the amount to be forfeited is greater than fifty percent $(50\%)$ of the full bond amount, the bond shall be forfeited in its entirety. Funds that become available to the City from the forfeiture of the bond shall be placed in the Miami 21 Public Benefits Trust Fund established by this Code.   
c. Affordable Housing Developments that qualify under Section 3.15, may elect to comply with the sustainability requirements promulgated by the Florida Housing Finance Corporation, or its successor agency, in lieu of the requirements set forth in Section 3.13.1.b above.   
d. The preservation of Natural Features such as trees, vegetation, geological, and other land characteristics and the preservation of archaeological features of significance are in the public interest. Said preservation may justify the relaxation of Setbacksplacement and number of Off-street Parking spaces, and driveway separation requirements by process of Waiver. The Zoning Administrator shall determine that the trees, vegetation, geological, and other natural characteristics or archaeological features are either in the Buildable Area of the Site, proposed location of the driveway or Parking, in the First Layer, or in the Public Right-of-Way immediately adjacent to the Lot. The Environmental Resources Division shall clarify that the species, size, health, and other characteristics of the Natural Features merit preservation. The Preservation Officer shall clarify that the archeological features merit preservation.  