# Business Demand Response  

Energy efficiency programs / Business Demand..  

LG&E and KU's Business Demand Response program provides a customized energy-reduction plan at no additional cost for our business customers, to help you reduce your facility's energy load and earn monetary incentives in return.  

Reduce your energy load   
· Earn monetary incentives   
Track energy usage with personalized web application  

# Eligibility requirements  

· Must be paying into the LG&E or KU DSM mechanism.   
· Must have a minimum measured base demand of 200 kW or more over prior 12-month term.   
· New or expanding customer must have a minimum of 3 months of history showing an increase in the base demand of 200 kWor more.   
· Participating customers must commit to curtailing at least 50 kW per dispatch event.   
· Customers may not participate in both the Curtailable Service Rider and the Business Demand Response program.  

# Features and benefits  

· On-site metering and communications equipment is installed at each participating site which willhelp you monitor real-tim energy usage.  

· Gain access to your own, near real-time, 5-minute interval meter data through a personalized online portal.  

· Customers may choose to receive a customized curtailment plan to maximize your opportunities to reduce energy usage while minimizing impacts on business operations.  

· A participant will receive an end-of-year incentive only if both of the following conditions are met: (1) a cycling event is called during and (2) the participant was enrolled in the program during at least one cycling event that season and successfully reduced load.  

′ Help LG&E and KU manage high demand periods or maintaining system reliability. Cycling events could be called year-round.  

# How to Enroll  