# Lower your energy bill with efficiency upgrades at no additional cost for income-eligible customers.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>WeCareforHomeownersandRenters</td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>WeCare for Apartment Building gowners</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# About the program  

WeCare is a voluntary program designed to create savings through weatherization and energy education to help incomeeligible customers in need. The WeCare Program helps provide a more efficient, safe and comfortable home. More importantly, it teaches our customers how to take more control over their energy usage - whether it's through your own energy conservation efforts, or through the installation of energy-saving devices.  

# WeCare FAQs  

Frequently asked questions and additional information.  

# Eligibility requirements  

# WeCare (for homeowners and renters)  

LG&E and KU residential customers may be eligible to participate in this program based on meeting the following eligibility requirements.  

The customer must have a minimum of one month of service with LG&E or KU.   
The customer's address must not have received these WeCare services within the last three years.   
The customer must be currently receiving assistance from at least one federal or state income-based programs: 0 Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LiHEAP) $\circ$ Medicaid 0  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) oHUD or Section 8 Voucher 0 Provide an explanation of another federal or state income-based program currently receiving assistance or confirmation of being at or below the federal income levels as determined by the U.s. Department of Health anc Human Services. Poverty Guidelines Computations  

· If the property is being rented, a property owner consent form must be received before services may begin.  

# WeCare (for abartment building owners)  

LG&E and KU residential or general service apartment building owners may be eligible to participate in this program based or meeting the following eligibility requirements.  

· The customer must have a minimum of one month of service with LG&E or KU with an account for common area space within the property.   
· The building must have a minimum of 4 units.   
·At least $50\%$ of the tenants within the property must be receiving assistance from at least one of the federal or state incomebased programs that are based on income levels at or below $200\%$ of the federal income levels as determined by the U.s. Department of Health and Human Services. Poverty Guidelines Computations   
· A property owner may not request these WeCare services more than once in a three-year period.   
· The property owner is responsible for providing proper notice to each of the tenants regarding access to the occupied space for audit and potential energy eficient upgrades.  

LG&E and KU Energy LLC reserves the right to revise program requirements and incentive levels at any time subject to approval of the Kentucky Public Service Commission. Incentives are subject to availability.  