# Small Business Audit and Direct Install  

Energy efficiency programs / Small Business Audit..  

Receive an audit and installation of energy-efficient measures   
Explore options to pursue later with potentially other incentives   
Save money and energy   
Reduce operatingcosts   
Signing up is quick and easy  

# About the program  

The Small Business Audit and Direct Install program provides small business property owners and renters with a turnkey service to enhance the efficiency of the property at no additional cost.  

When you enroll in the program, qualified participants receive:  

· an onsite, customized energy audit performed by a third-party contractor,   
· a review of the results and a copy of the audit report which will outline the key findings and opportunities to save money and energy through energy efficiency actions, and   
· installation of energy-efficiency measures.  

This program may be the start of your journey towards a more energy efficient property. Should you want to proceed further in this journey, LG&E and KU offers incentives for the installation of many different energy efficiency applications through our Business Rebates program.  

No matter where you are in your energy efficiency journey, LG&E and KU's energy manager is available to assist you with technical guidance throughout the process. We are here to help you from ideation to calculations to determining the potential savings and a potential incentive amount offered through Business Rebates.  

# Apply now  

# Eligibility  

· An active LG&E or KU account holder with service under only the General Service electric options or LG&E CGS or IGS rate Options.   
·Own or operate a qualifying smallbusine, including, but not limited to retail, food service, professional services, or maintenanceservices.   
· Services may not be provided under this program more than one time in a three-year period.  

# FAQS  