# California - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-10-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-10-09 17:11:10 
 ***state** : California 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-10-08 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : TECH Clean California 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***additional technologies*** : Electrical Panels, Electric Wiring, Electric Stove, Electric Cooktop, Electric Range, Electric Oven, Heat Pump Clothes Dryers 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : **Incentive amount varies depending on income. Households must have an annual
income at or below 150% of AMI to be eligible.**  
  
Heat Pump for Space Heating and Cooling – Two-Speed (Heat Pump HVAC): Up to
$7,500  
Heat Pump for Space Heating and Cooling – Variable Speed (Heat Pump HVAC): Up
to $8,000  
Heat Pump Water Heater (Electric to Electric): Up to $700  
In-Unit Heat Pump Water Heater: Up to $1,750  
Central Heat Pump Water Heater: Up to $1,750 per unit served  
Electric Load Service Center (Electric Panel): Up to $4,000  
Electric Wiring : Up to $2,500  
Electric Stove, Cooktop, Range, or Oven: Up to $840  
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer: Up to $840  

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : All equipment must be Energy Star certified where Energy Star certification is
available for the equipment type. TECH Clean California will provide
eligibility criteria for product types not covered by Energy Star.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1750.0 $/Unit 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 8000.0 $/Unit 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.
_**

** _As of October 8, 2024, this program is only accepting applications for
equipment installed in multifamily housing (5 or more units). Applications
will be accepted for single-family homes in the coming weeks. See program
website for most up to date information._**

Incentives are available to owners of multifamily properties in California
which include five or more residential units and are populated by income-
qualified residents. Incentives are also available to governmental,
commercial, or nonprofit organizations carrying out a project for an owner of
an eligible multifamily property.

Eligible equipment includes Energy Star certified:

  * Heat pumps for air heating and cooling
  * Heat pump water heaters
  * Electric stoves, cooktops, ranges, or ovens
  * Heat pump clothes dryers
  * Electrical panel upgrades and wiring

 
 