# Maine Community Benefits Plan  

# Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates (HEAR) Program (IRA Section 50122)  

# Revised 12/3/2024  

# Table of Contents  

Overview .  

1. Community and Labor Engagement .  

A. Public input session & Incorporation of public input into program design . 2 B. Ongoing community engagement plan .. 3 C. Outreach strategies for target groups..  

2. Engage and Support a Skilled and Qualified Workforce: ......  

A. Partnering with responsible contractors.. 5   
B. Workforce education and training support.... 5  

3. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA)  

4. Justice40 Initiative.. 8  

A. Definition of disadvantaged communities ..... 8   
B. Rebate delivery in disadvantaged communities ... .. 8   
C. Tracking systems for disadvantaged community engagement . 9   
D. Benefits for low-income households .... 9  

5. Summary Table of Commitments ....... 10  

Appendix A: Priority Entities Targeted for Stakeholder Engagement in the TREC Program .. 13   
Appendix B: Letters of Support. .. 16  

# Overview  

To support program goals established by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), the Home Efficiency Rebates are expected to (1) support meaningful community and labor engagement; (2) engage and support a skilled and qualified workforce; (3) advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA); and (4) contribute to the Justice40 Initiative with the goal that $40\%$ of the overall benefits of certain Federal investments flow to disadvantaged communities. This plan describes Maine’s approach to fulfilling these objectives. The plan, milestones, and progress toward them will be made accessible on the Efficiency Maine website.  

# 1. Community and Labor Engagement  

# A. Public input session & Incorporation of public input into program design  

Maine’s plan for the use of Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates (HEAR) reflects over 12 months of stakeholder engagement. This engagement has involved targeted outreach to priority community and contractor groups as well as open opportunities for public input. In January 2023, Efficiency Maine partnered with the Governor’s Energy Office (GEO) and the Maine State Housing Authority (MaineHousing) to publish a draft plan for the use of IRA home energy rebate funds in Maine. This draft plan was posted to the GEO website.  

Efficiency Maine, the GEO, and MaineHousing hosted a public meeting on January 23, 2023 to provide another opportunity for stakeholders to offer input on the draft plan. This meeting was announced on the GEO website and GEO social media, as well as by email via GEO and Efficiency Maine channels. Over 100 members of the public attended this meeting, which was hosted in a hybrid online (virtual) and inperson format. During the meeting, Efficiency Maine and the GEO offered an overview of the Home Energy Rebate programs and Maine’s draft plan for the use of HEAR funding. Following the public meeting, the GEO hosted an online portal for the submission of written comments with an option to email them directly to GEO staff. Written comments were accepted for two weeks following the meeting with additional comments accepted beyond that timeframe. 13 attendees provided verbal comments on Maine’s draft plan for the Home Energy Rebates. Another 47 comments were received in writing, both via the GEO website online portal and direct email to the GEO staff. Participants and commenters included installers, private citizens, state agencies, program service providers, elected officials, representatives of labor and workforce development, environmental advocates, community organizing groups, and members of educational institutions, among others.  

Maine has sought and received input on its plan for HEAR rebates in the months before and after that January public comment period. The Efficiency Maine staff has provided regular updates on the plan for HEAR rebates to the Efficiency Maine Board of Trustees, meetings that are open to the public and include dedicated time for public comment. Efficiency Maine has also participated in a variety of webinars and outreach meetings related to plans for HEAR, including, among others:  

• A webinar with the Maine BPA (affiliate of the Building Performance Association),   
• Virtual meetings with multifamily building owners and architecture and engineering firms, Presentations to the Maine Affordable Housing Coalition,   
• Discussions with Housing Authorities, and A presentation to Efficiency Maine’s Low-income Advisory Group – an advisory panel that includes members of the Community Action Agencies, Office of the Public Advocate, the utilities, the Public Utilities Commission, and community leaders.  

Throughout the preparation of the HEAR program application, Efficiency Maine, the GEO, and MaineHousing have met regularly to discuss feedback on program design received from the public via formal and informal channels across each agency.  

Maine has developed and refined its plan for HEAR based on the public input received in meetings, webinars, written comments, and other public engagement. Notable themes from public engagement include:  

• Prioritize low-income households, particularly renters – consumers who face higher barriers to pursuing efficiency upgrades and have less tax liability, which makes it difficult to take advantage of tax credits; Offer incentives for efficient new construction to support electrification, and lower operating costs, in the development of affordable housing for low-income households; Simplify program design and ensure that technical assistance is available to individuals/entities that do not have the capacity to plan projects with existing resources; Look for opportunities to align the program with contractor training grants available under Section 50123 of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).  

Maine’s plan reflects this input. For example, the HEAR budget prioritizes incentives for efficient electric HVAC in new construction of affordable housing. The planned allocation of HEAR funding to multifamily buildings serving low-income households (with income under $180\%$ of AMI) far exceeds the minimum percentage required in DOE’s program guidance. Similarly, HEAR incentives for single-family homes will incentivize whole-home heat pump installations in manufactured homes occupied by low-income households under Maine’s plan. This prioritization similarly reflects a commitment to delivering program benefits to households with high energy burdens and who may face more barriers to pursuing efficiency upgrades. Further, as described in this plan, Maine intends to identify opportunities to align TREC implementation with relevant HEAR activities.  

# B. Ongoing community engagement plan  

Maine will leverage existing practices and channels for soliciting and responding to community feedback throughout the operation of the HEAR program. As described in the Consumer Protection Plan, the tollfree Efficiency Maine Call Center has staff dedicated to fielding questions, feedback, and comments received by phone and by email. The Call Center staff also ensures that communications are directed to the appropriate Efficiency Maine program staff and implementation teams. The Efficiency Maine website and program materials feature the Call Center contact information prominently. Monthly public meetings of the Efficiency Maine Board of Trustees provide another regular opportunity for communities to provide input on program implementation.  

Efficiency Maine’s program staff also engages regularly with installers through regular email newsletters and direct outbound calls. Periodic site visits or “ride-along” meetings with residential registered vendors (RRVs) (i.e., contractors) allow Efficiency Maine staff an opportunity to collect nuanced feedback from the installer community and to seek ideas for continuous improvement in the programs serving one- and two-family homes. Trainings for Qualified Partner (QP) trade allies, who serve multifamily homes, provide another opportunity for engagement with program participants to understand strengths and weaknesses of the program.  

Efficiency Maine will solicit input directly from consumers as well. As described in the Consumer Protection Plan, Efficiency Maine will provide rebate recipients with the option to complete a customer satisfaction survey.  

Finally, program evaluations conducted on completed project installations, to be described further in a forthcoming Evaluation Plan, will provide another opportunity for the collection of feedback on program effectiveness.  

# C. Outreach strategies for target groups  

The HEAR Education and Outreach and Education Plan describes how Maine’s IRA rebate program will market its benefits to low-income owners of single-family, manufactured (mobile) homes and to the property owners/developers of vitally important, new, affordable housing stock. As demonstrated by the budget allocations of the plan, well in excess of $40\%$ of the budget and the benefits will be directed to improve the housing occupied by low-income Mainers who have among the highest energy burden in the country. The very targeted nature of these two categories of consumers will significantly simplify the task of reaching out to raise their awareness of the program’s existence and benefits, and to encourage their participation. For single-family homes, Efficiency Maine’s outreach plan to consumers will rely on expanding its existing marketing channels – heavy collaboration with and support of trade allies (contractors) in combination with direct mail, canvassing (door-to-door) in mobile home parks, digital ads, earned media and radio. To reach developers and owner/operators of new, multifamily affordable housing, Efficiency Maine and its partners will conduct in-person meetings and events, and provide extensive written program descriptions, to target this well-identified and finite community.  

Efficiency Maine will also work closely with the GEO to support the reach of GEO’s comprehensive workforce development activities, including to help align those activities with the workforce needs for HEAR projects. In 2021, the GEO established the Clean Energy Partnership (CEP) to advance its clean energy, climate, economic development, and workforce goals – including Governor Janet Mills’ goal of more than doubling Maine’s clean energy and energy efficiency jobs by 2030. To facilitate cross-sector partnership and stakeholder engagement, the CEP established an Advisory Group comprised of members of the Governor’s Office of Policy Innovation and the Future, the Maine Department of Labor, Department of Economic and Community Development, the Maine Community College System, the University of Maine system, the private sector, labor unions, nonprofits, and others. All meetings are open to the public and information materials are shared on the CEP’s website.  

As noted above, the Plan will leverage Efficiency Maine’s existing channels to engage relevant stakeholders throughout the administration of the HEAR program. Efficiency Maine has a robust network of certified trade allies – both RRVs serving residential consumers and QPs serving commercial consumers (including the multifamily sector). Efficiency Maine will use established newsletters, website channels, and the direct outreach described in the section above to ensure that these installers have access to information on HEAR-funded incentives and can serve as ambassadors of these programs to contractor organizations and to consumers. Efficiency Maine will also continue working with the Maine Community College System to support the installer training classes that the community colleges offer.  

Efficiency Maine will build upon years of investment in connection points with contractors and consumers across the state to ensure the benefits of HEAR reach low-income households and disadvantaged communities. To drive demand for whole-home heat pump projects in manufactured homes, Efficiency Maine will supplement web (including social media) and mailed advertisements by adding in-person events and engagement with manufactured home communities. Efficiency Maine has also worked with the Community Action Agencies to ensure that they are familiar with the opportunities available through Efficiency Maine and prepared to inform low-income consumers about them. Across these outreach channels, and the others described in the Education and Outreach plan, Efficiency Maine has fostered a strong referral network among consumers and installers.  

In deploying HEAR funding for multifamily new construction, Efficiency Maine will also work closely with MaineHousing, public housing authorities, developers of affordable housing, among other entities with deep expertise in supporting the development of housing to serve low-income households, including in disadvantaged communities. These organizations have strong ties to community organizations and will provide a valuable conduit of feedback on program implementation needs and opportunities for improvement.  

# 2. Engage and Support a Skilled and Qualified Workforce:  

# A. Partnering with responsible contractors  

Maine will rely upon Efficiency Maine’s networks of trade allies to undertake the efficiency projects proposed in Maine’s plan for the HEAR program. Over more than a decade, Efficiency Maine has developed and refined standards and requirements for these RRVs and QPs. These policies, which are described in the Consumer Protection Plan, ensure that the contractors participating in Efficiency Maine’s rebate programs have the resources and qualifications to conduct projects successfully and to the benefit of the consumer. Qualifications required include completion of relevant trainings, holding necessary certificates, licensures and insurance, adherence to permitting requirements, and compliance with OSHA safety and health standards. Trade allies must, via signature, agree to Efficiency Maine’s terms and conditions as well as a code of conduct. As described in the Consumer Protection Plan, Efficiency Maine has established criteria for RRVs installing whole-home heat pumps in manufactured homes above and beyond those requirements applicable to all other RRVs.  

Efficiency Maine registered trainers offer opportunities for technicians to complete required trainings throughout the state. At present, trainers for Heat Pump Installer classes that meet Efficiency Maine’s requirements include Eastern Maine Community College, Central Maine Community College, FW Webb Company, Kennebec Valley Community College, Maine Energy Marketers Association, and UA Local 716. Scholarships available for these trainings help to defray the cost of participation, helping reduce the barrier to companies seeking to expand their workforce and to technicians seeking to participate in Efficiency Maine’s programs.  

# B. Workforce education and training support  

Efficiency Maine will work with GEO to align relevant workforce development initiatives with the needs of contractors participating in the HEAR program. The GEO is responsible for administering the Inflation Reduction Act Section 50123 State-Based Home Energy Contractor Training Grants program (TREC) funds. This program will benefit the workforce serving Efficiency Maine’s existing rebate, incentive, and financing programs, as well as the workforce that will undertake projects incentivized with HEAR funding. The growth of the energy efficiency sector in Maine has the potential to create new, high‐ paying job opportunities for workers in carpentry, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration, electrical, plumbing and pipefitting, and other trades, while also creating opportunities for the skilled incumbent workforce. These opportunities align with Maine’s clean energy, climate, economic development, and workforce goals, including Governor Janet Mills’ goal of doubling Maine’s clean energy and energy efficiency jobs by 2030, and her new, nation- leading goal of installing 175,000 new heat pumps by 2027, as well as the objective set in statute to increase the pace of weatherization to 35,000 units by 2030 (with at least 10,000 of those in low income households).  

GEO has made outreach efforts to gather input from key labor stakeholders in the TREC program, including with industry associations and union representatives from three construction crafts to discuss current capacity to train energy efficiency workers. GEO also engaged members of the CEP Advisory Group which will be utilized for sustained engagement in coordination with Efficiency Maine. As part of its TREC program management structure, the CEP will also establish an Energy Efficiency Workforce Development Sub-Committee under its existing Advisory Group that will meet quarterly to promote stakeholder engagement and collect feedback on program design and implementation. CEP Advisory Group members and community and labor stakeholders will be invited to participate, and the subcommittee will be comprised of at least one-third members of the target beneficiaries in the TREC program. Efficiency Maine will join this subcommittee to support the coordination of the TREC program and HEAR programs. Such engagement will allow Efficiency Maine to solicit and collect stakeholder feedback and increase community buy-in and participation in the HEAR program. A full list of the priority entities that the CEP will target for stakeholder engagement in the TREC program is provided as Appendix A to this plan.  

The GEO has an extensive track record of funding innovative clean energy and energy efficiency workforce development projects through the CEP. Since December 2022, the CEP has provided $\$2.9$ million in workforce development funding to subrecipients comprised of diverse community, education, employers, union and labor associations. As of June 2024, the CEP workforce development subrecipients had supported over 4,400 individuals through training, credentialing, and job placement, as well as clean energy education and career outreach. CEP-funded programs include labor management training programs, pre-apprenticeship programs, and registered apprenticeships.  

The CEP also supports Maine businesses and contractors with entrepreneurship and innovation programs. In 2023, the CEP awarded $\$1.3$ million in funding for clean energy incubator and accelerator programs, including a program supporting energy efficiency contractors. This pilot program provides business advising services aimed at growing and scaling contractor businesses that deliver home weatherization and energy efficiency services in rural and low-income communities.  

Maine’s TREC program is expected to provide training and upskilling to 100 new energy efficiency workers, 100 existing energy efficiency workers, as well as business growth services for 20 home energy contractors. The TREC program will invest over $\$1.3$ million in innovative workforce development, education, and outreach programs leading to quality jobs and advancement for diverse workers, primarily in disadvantaged communities. It is anticipated that between 2-4 subrecipients will be selected to deliver these activities, with anticipated award sizes ranging from $\$100,000–5550,000$ .  

In the TREC development, the GEO has developed a plan for continued engagement of community and labor stakeholders through program design and implementation. In Q4 2023 and Q1 2024, GEO conducted outreach to community and labor stakeholders to gather input on workforce needs, current capacity to train workers, and future needs. In support of the implementation of the TREC program, Efficiency Maine will work with the GEO to align workforce programs to serve the market demand that Maine seeks to accelerate under the HEAR program, benefitting new and incumbent workers as well as contractor firms. Also, RRVs and QPs will receive from Efficiency Maine program literature, checklists, and guidance (including training, as needed), on the details of Maine’s HEAR program. They will also receive feedback from Efficiency Maine on the results of consumer satisfaction surveys and third-party inspections, and additional training, as needed, on any technical challenges that are being experienced with regard to specific equipment or appliances offered through the program. This is standard operating procedure in all major Efficiency Maine programs.  

# 3. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA)  

Maine will leverage the CEP and TREC to introduce community members to workforce development and employment opportunities, with the aim of maximizing program benefits in Justice40 communities and underrepresented groups. Efficiency Maine will work with the GEO to identify opportunities for these TREC activities to support the workforce for HEAR projects.  

The CEP will implement a combination of administrative and programmatic approaches to ensure that TREC program implementation achieves its diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility goals. Utilizing procurement procedures consistent with State and Federal regulations and standards, the GEO will encourage TREC subrecipients to include strategies for recruiting, training, and retaining individuals from underrepresented groups and disadvantaged communities. GEO’s programmatic approach may include, for example, prioritizing investment into existing programs that have a track record of serving diverse populations. Subrecipients will be encouraged to include any or a combination of strategies to recruit and train individuals from underrepresented groups, including:  

1. Partner with community-based organizations (CBOs): Programs will be encouraged to build strong partnerships with community-based organizations to inform program design, and support recruitment efforts. Partnering with trusted community organizations will improve the likelihood that programs meet the unique needs of the target population and have sufficient credibility to generate participant interest in the program.  

2. Customized Program Design: Programs should customize their training and curriculum to address potential barriers faced by the target populations from disadvantaged communities or underrepresented groups. Sample design strategies could include customized curricula such as contextualized English for multilingual adults, earn as you learn models, innovative program delivery such as mobile units or hybrid learning, and/or paid on the job training opportunities.  

3. Wrap-around supports: Programs will be encouraged to develop a plan to provide wrap-around supports to address life circumstances that may inhibit participation. Subrecipients will be encouraged to make strong linkages to their local Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) service providers for trainee enrollment and support with needs such as transportation and childcare.  The CEP will facilitate connections between subrecipients and the regional workforce development boards and WIOA service providers.  

4. New outreach and delivery methods: New outreach and delivery methods may include curriculum and training programs that address the specific learning styles and challenges faced by disadvantaged and underrepresented communities. Programs may develop contextualized messaging and materials that can be shared with CBOs to be distributed through existing information channels used by the populations they serve. For example, if targeting New Americans, programs should translate their materials into multiple languages and use popular communication technologies such as WhatsApp.  

5. Partner with local educators currently serving diverse students: Geographic proximity is an important component of effective recruitment. Programs may include partnerships with regional adult education providers, career and technical education schools and centers,  

community colleges, community action programs, and nonprofit social services in areas that currently serve racially diverse students.  

6. Promote entrepreneurship among diverse business owners: The CEP will seek to invest in programs that promote entrepreneurship among current and aspiring business owners from disadvantaged communities or underrepresented groups. The CEP will support direct connections, where applicable between diverse contractors and business owners to targeted programs within the Maine Department of Economic and Community Development and other state, local and community-based programs who support diverse businesses in Maine.  

Efficiency Maine will engage with the TREC program to support the TREC workforce development initiatives focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. Through the administration of the HEAR program, Efficiency Maine will facilitate connections between established contractors and local workforce development initiatives. Strategies may include encouraging contractors to register for CEP workforce development updates, cross-promoting training opportunities or providing direct introductions to CEP staff to connect with workforce training initiatives in their region. Efficiency Maine will also work with GEO to make training and educational materials developed for HEAR-eligible projects (e.g., whole-home heat pump installations in manufactured homes) available to the TREC program. Examples may include installation checklists, in-house videos, tutorials, infographics, webinars, templates, shareable PowerPoint slides, or workshops and outreach. Through continued support for training providers, including the community colleges, Efficiency Maine will work to support engagement and recruitment of technicians from the communities that receive project investment under the HEAR program.  

# 4. Justice40 Initiative  

# A. Definition of disadvantaged communities  

Maine will use the Climate Economic Justice Screening Tool (CEJST) to define disadvantaged communities. CEJST includes indicators associated with climate change, energy, health, housing, legacy pollution, transportation, water and wastewater, and workforce development. Maine’s plan for HEAR deployment will ensure that program benefits flow to low-income households (income $180\%$ of AMI), located within and outside of CEJST-identified disadvantaged communities.  

# B. Rebate delivery in disadvantaged communities  

As described in the Education and Outreach plan, Maine will rely upon the strong network of installers, community organizations, and agencies that serve low-income households to inform developers and consumers of HEAR-funded project opportunities. Efficiency Maine will include a description of the CEJST mapping tool in program materials, along with a link to the online mapping tool. Efficiency Maine will encourage installers and developers to use this tool in their project prospecting process. In program materials and outreach, Efficiency Maine will highlight the financial incentive available under HEAR for installers that complete projects in disadvantaged communities.  

Maine will provide eligible entity representatives with this installer incentive for heat pump installations in homes located in disadvantaged communities. The incentive will be set at $\$200$ and subject to a cap of $\$1,000$ for multifamily buildings. In standing up the HEAR program, Efficiency Maine will establish a dedicated tracker for identifying projects located in disadvantaged communities. As part of final invoice processing and rebate award, Efficiency Maine will remit this additional installer incentive to the eligible recipient for those projects located in a disadvantaged community.  

Efficiency Maine will also conduct targeted advertising and events to promote interest in whole-home heat pump projects in manufactured homes. Efficiency Maine will consider opportunities to direct this outreach to the specific geographical areas included in the CEJST-identified disadvantaged communities. In events and direct outreach to educate developers of low-income multifamily construction, Efficiency Maine will work with MaineHousing to ensure that projects include buildings in disadvantaged communities.  

# C. Tracking systems for disadvantaged community engagement  

In administering HEAR funding, Efficiency Maine will track projects located in CEJST-identified disadvantaged communities to ensure that at least $40\%$ of benefits flow to these communities, consistent with Justice40. Efficiency Maine will track and report the percentage of rebate funds awarded to projects in disadvantaged communities. As part of this tracking, Efficiency Maine will monitor multifamily project pipelines and quarterly program activity in single-family homes to ensure that Maine remains on track to achieve this allocation of benefits to disadvantaged communities.  

Efficiency Maine will also track and report the portion of HEAR rebate funding allocated to low-income households $120\%$ of AMI). The allocation of funding and associated benefit to low-income households will far exceed the minimum levels established in DOE’s program guidance (reference Appendix A to the Home Energy Rebates Program Requirements: Required Allocations). Indeed, upon program launch, Efficiency Maine will limit rebate eligibility to heat pump projects in low-income manufactured homes and in low-income multifamily new construction. Only after monitoring program performance and project uptake will Efficiency Maine consider broadening eligibility for HEAR incentives for single-family homes to moderate income households $>80\%$ and $150\%$ of AMI).  

# D. Benefits for low-income households  

Maine’s plan for HEAR implementation limits project eligibility in single-family homes to whole-home heat pump installations in manufactured homes. Qualifying homes must rely upon delivered fuels for space heating (e.g., oil, kerosene, or propane) and must not have an existing heat pump. As shown on Efficiency Maine’s website, a home heated with a ducted heat pump is expected to save hundreds to over a thousand dollars annually compared to a home heated with an oil, kerosene, or propane furnace (see https://www.efficiencymaine.com/at-home/heating-cost-comparison/). Efficiency Maine will continue to monitor heating costs1 across fuel types and to limit qualifying heat pumps to highperforming units to ensure that heat pump installations will reduce overall energy costs for the consumer. Consistent with DOE program requirements, customers will be provided with an estimate of utility bill impacts as part of the home assessment. Following project completion, Efficiency Maine will also ask customers whether they have switched any relevant heating assistance benefit to electricity to further ensure that overall heating costs for the customer do not increase. Where appropriate,  

Efficiency Maine will help the household work with their Community Action Agency to properly assign this benefit.  

Benefits of a whole-home heat pump system extend beyond direct savings on energy costs. The addition of an efficient source of cooling in warmer months offers enhanced home comfort. Program requirements will ensure that the existing furnace is removed as part of the heat pump installation, eliminating that indoor combustion. Furthermore, households using electric heat are insulated from the high volatility of energy prices for delivered fuels. Reducing combustion of oil and kerosene in these homes also significantly reduces localized air pollution emissions that contribute to acid rain and particulates, smog, and carbon dioxide.  A switch to heat pumps also dramatically reduces the risk of fuel spills from leaky storage tanks that threaten wells relied upon by many of Maine’s rural communities.  

For HEAR-funded multifamily new construction, the “home assessment” will include an estimate of the expected operating costs of the efficient system relative to the baseline, code-compliant alternative. Savings associated with the more efficient system will benefit building residents.  

Efficiency Maine will work with installers to ensure that households receive information on how to use their heating system to maximize performance and reduce operating costs. Efficiency Maine will supplement its existing materials where needed to ensure that such education is readily accessible to residents of apartments as well as households residing in single-family homes.  

Maine will also leverage the TREC program, alongside the HEAR program, to prioritize workforce development projects in disadvantaged communities. The CEP anticipates investing in projects serving four disadvantaged communities throughout the state. Priority disadvantaged communities may include the following tracts, identified using CEJST:  

• Augusta, ME Tract 23011010400.   
• Biddeford, ME Tract 23031025201 and 23031025202.   
• Lewiston, ME Tract 23001020400.   
• Portland, ME Tracts 23005000500, 23005000600, 23005000300, 23005002300.   
• Bangor, ME Tract 23019000200.   
• Calais, ME Tract 23029955500  

Efficiency Maine will work with the CEP to facilitate connections between identified project developers or contractors working in disadvantaged communities and local workforce development initiatives funded by the TREC grant. Additionally, the TREC program will support small contractor firms in disadvantaged communities through targeted educational opportunities to prepare contractors to deliver the type of HVAC installation that may be relevant to HEAR-funded projects. Efficiency Maine will work with the TREC program to provide educational materials that can be utilized by local training programs to encourage participation in the Home Energy Rebates program.  

# 5. Summary Table of Commitments  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Commitment</td><td>Year 1</td><td>Year2</td><td>Year3</td><td>Year 4</td><td>Year 5-7</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Milestone</td><td>Milestone</td><td>Milestone</td><td>Milestone</td><td>Milestone</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Community and Labor engagement</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Attend 4</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Maine join Clean Energy Partnership Energy Efficiency Workforce Sub-Committee</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings and prepare 1 presentation</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings and collect feedback on HEAR program</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings and integrate feedback</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings and share outcomes</td><td>quarterly meetings and discuss sustainability beyond HEAR performance period</td></tr><tr><td>Utilize Clean Energy Partnership communication channels to reach workforce organizations</td><td>Provide introductory HEAR info and any updates 2 times/year via CEP newsletter, website etc.</td><td>Provide HEAR updates (e.g.. new guidance, cumulative results) 2 times/year via CEP newsletter, website etc.</td><td>Provide HEAR updates (e.g., new guidance, cumulative results) 2 times/year via CEP newsletter, website etc.</td><td>Provide HEAR updates (e.g., new guidance, cumulative results) 2 times/year via CEP newsletter, website etc.</td><td>Provide HEAR updates (e.g., new guidance, cumulative results) 2 times/year via CEP newsletter, website etc.</td></tr><tr><td>Use Efficiency Maine communication channels to reach workforce organizations</td><td>Share introductory HEAR info and any updates via at least 4 newsletters</td><td>Share HEAR updates (e.g.,. new program guidance and cumulative results) via at least 2 newsletters</td><td>Share HEAR updates (e.g., new program guidance and cumulative results) via at least 2</td><td>Share HEAR updates (e.g., new program guidance and cumulative results) via at least 2</td><td>Share HEAR updates (e.g., new program guidance and cumulative results) via at least 2</td></tr><tr><td>Investing in Job Quality and a Skilled Workforce</td><td></td><td></td><td>newsletters</td><td>newsletters</td><td>newsletters Attend 4</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Maine to support the GEO's administration of TREC through regular feedback and technical assistance, as needed</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings with GEO/CEP</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings with GEO/CEP</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings with GEO/CEP</td><td>Attend 4 quarterly meetings with GEO/CEP</td><td>quarterly meetings with GEO/CEP</td></tr><tr><td>Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Efficiency Maine provide HEAR rebate educational develop and</td><td>Efficiency Maine</td><td>TREC subrecipients</td><td>TREC subrecipients</td><td>TREC subrecipients</td><td>TREC subrecipients</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td>materials for TREC funded workforce training organizations serving individuals from underrepresented communities and those facing systemic barriers to employment</td><td>share educational materials with CEP.These will include a minimum of two webinar recordings and two sets of program guidelines (for each HEAR</td><td>utilize materials</td><td>utilize materials</td><td>utilize materials</td><td>utilize materials</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Maine support GEO's dissemination of information on supportive services available through workforce development</td><td>initiative, respectively). GEO prepares materials for Efficiency Maine to distribute to contractor channels</td><td>Efficiency Maine distributes materials via at least 2 newsletters and includes</td><td>Efficiency Maine distributes materials via at least 2 newsletters and includes</td><td>Efficiency Maine distributes materials via at least 2 newsletters and includes</td><td>Efficiency Maine distributes materials via at least 2 newsletters and includes on</td></tr><tr><td>initiatives Justice40 Initiative</td><td></td><td>on website</td><td>on website</td><td>on website</td><td>website</td></tr><tr><td>Allocate atleast40% of rebate funding to projects in DACs2</td><td>Invest 40% of rebate funding to</td><td>Invest 40% of rebate funding to DACs</td><td>Invest 40% of rebate funding to</td><td>Invest 40% of rebate funding to DACs</td><td>Invest 40% of rebate funding to DACs</td></tr><tr><td>Allocate atleast75% of rebate funding to low-income households (HH) (<80% of AMI), including in multifamily3</td><td>DACS Invest 75%of rebate funding to low-income HH</td><td>Invest 75% of rebate funding to low-income HH</td><td>DACs Invest 75% of rebate funding to low-income HH</td><td>Invest 75%of rebate funding to low-income HH</td><td>Invest 75% of rebate funding to low-income HH</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Maine facilitate</td><td>PromoteTREC workforce</td><td>Promote TREC</td><td>Promote TREC</td><td>Promote TREC</td><td>Promote TREC</td></tr><tr><td>connections</td><td>initiatives</td><td>workforce</td><td>workforce</td><td>workforce</td><td>workforce</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>initiatives with</td><td>initiatives with</td><td>initiatives with</td><td>initiatives with</td></tr><tr><td>between contractors</td><td>with Efficiency</td><td>Efficiency</td><td>Efficiency</td><td>Efficiency</td><td>Efficiency</td></tr></table></body></html>

2 Though this table reflects the minimum $40\%$ spending target by year, actual annual spending may fluctuate. Maine intends to hit the $40\%$ target over the life of the program. 3 Though this table reflects the minimum $75\%$ spending target by year, actual annual spending may fluctuate. Maine intends to hit the $75\%$ target over the life of the program.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>conducting projects in DACs and local TRECfunded workforce initiatives topromote quality jobs for members of disadvantaged communities</td><td>Maine trade allies, connect interested contractors to CEP via at least 2 newsletters, 1 targeted email to contractorsin priority DACs, and posting on website.</td><td>Maine trade allies, connect interested contractors to CEPvia atleast 2 newsletters, 1 targeted email to contractors in priority DACs, and posting on website.</td><td>Maine trade allies, connect interested contractors to CEP via at least 2 newsletters, 1 targeted email to contractors in priority DACs, and posting on website.</td><td>Maine trade allies, connect interested contractors to CEP via at least 2 newsletters, 1 targeted email to contractors in priority DACs, and posting on</td><td>Maine trade allies, connect interested contractors to CEP via atleast 2 newsletters, 1 targeted email to contractors in priority DACs, and posting on</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Appendix A: Priority Entities Targeted for Stakeholder Engagement in the TREC Program   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Organizations</td><td>Description and expertise</td><td>Activitiesanddeliverables</td></tr><tr><td>Maine Community College System</td><td>Statewide community college system offering associate degrees, certifications and workforce</td><td>Coordinate to leverage existing programs, facilities, equipment, instructors etc.to</td></tr><tr><td>fortheAdvancement ofMaine'sWorkforce</td><td>workforce training programs for</td><td>Coordination to leverage resources and</td></tr><tr><td>University of Maine System</td><td>Statewide public University systemParticipation on the CEP advisory group year degree programs in a range of TREC program design and implementation.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Education:Adult Education</td><td>state that offer education and career pathways for adults, many ofsupport with recruitment from whom are from disadvantaged and disadvantaged and underrepresented</td><td>programs for new workers, and also</td></tr><tr><td>Education:Career andand technical education centers Technical Education</td><td></td><td>short-term training or pre-apprenticeship</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>with certification programs in a range of traderelated industries</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>MaineDepartmentof Labor</td><td>Provides a range of supports to workers and businesses in Maine</td><td>Engagement through CareerCenters, Industry Partnerships and Maine Apprentice Program for recruitment and training of TREC participants. Support as needed with data and employer engagement.</td></tr><tr><td>CoastalCounties Workforce Inc. Workforce Development Board</td><td>Administers regional WioA funding including contracts, grant administration,data,and recently awarded USDOL BIG Green Jobs for programs. ME program grant funding</td><td>Leverageresourcesfromexistinggrants and programs to support trainees. Coordinateemployeroutreachacross</td></tr><tr><td>Northern Maine Workforce DevelopmentBoard</td><td>Administersandoverseesthe delivery of WIOA Title 1B, Adult, Dislocated worker, and Youth funded services in the Northern Maine region</td><td>Supportwithregional employer coordination and streamlined referrals to WIOA services for trainees, and leveraged use of WlOA funds for on-the-job training</td></tr><tr><td>CentralWesternMaineAdministersandoverseesthe Workforce Development Board</td><td>delivery of WIOA Title 1B, Adult, Dislocated worker, and Youth funded services in the Central Western Maine region</td><td>Support with regional employer coordination and streamlined referrals to WlOA services for trainees, and leveraged use of WlOA funds for on-the-job training</td></tr><tr><td>StatewideWIOA service providers</td><td>ProvidesWioAcasemanagement services and wrap around supports</td><td>Participant enrollment intoWiOA or BIG (ccWl region only) grant, provision of wrap wound support, employment tracking</td></tr><tr><td>Energy efficiency (various)</td><td>ndustry expertise and contractors/employers understanding of hiring needs in the field.</td><td>Engagement in development and provision of new worker training programs, internship/field placements, apprenticeships, potential employment of trainees into energy efficiency technician roles</td></tr><tr><td>Coastal Enterprises Inc nonprofit community development organization</td><td>Community development financial institutionwithnew WeatherizationAcceleratorto support weatherization businesses. subcommittee, and source of capital and Also offers business advising and financing through multiple programs across the state including</td><td>Referralsofpotentialcontractors interestedinstartingaweatherization business.Possiblemember on advising for contractor business growth.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>Small Business Development Centers.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>FourDirections Development Corporation</td><td>CDFI thatimprovesthe social and economicconditionsoftheNative AmericantribesinMaine—the Maliseet, Mi'kmaq, Passamaquoddy,and Penobscot — through education and investment in affordable housing, tribal business ventures, and Native entrepreneurship</td><td>Resourceforcontractorbusiness development-smallbusinessfinancingand counseling services. Possible member of Subcommittee or subrecipient.</td></tr><tr><td>Maine Community Action Partnership</td><td>A network of 10 community actionSupport design of weatherization training programs in Maine who administer programs, potentially offer in house weatherizationprograms</td><td>weatherization training program within action agencies,support recruitment from disadvantaged communities</td></tr><tr><td>Efficiency Maine</td><td>EfficiencyMaineprovides consumer information, marketing support, demonstration pilots, initiatives to promote high- efficiency equipment and operations that help Maine's homes, businesses, and institutions reduce their energy costs and lower their greenhouse gas emissions</td><td>Serve on advisoryboard, provideguidance on new rebate contractor requirements and administration, promote grant discounts, rebates, loans, and other lengagement opportunities with registered vendors,providetechnical assistance on curriculumasneeded</td></tr><tr><td>Maine StateHousing Authority</td><td>Oversees Home Energy Assistance Program, Heat Pump Program, Weatherization Program and Central heating Improvement Program. Received BIL funding to provide weatherization training and technical assistance.</td><td>Serve on advisory board, leverage resources, technical assistance on weatherization training plan, engage contractors, promote training opportunities with Maine Housing residents.</td></tr><tr><td>BuildGreenMaine</td><td>A Building Performance Institute affiliated Test Center offering BPI training and Certifications</td><td>Engagement on relevant BPl training programs for new and incumbent workers and contractors</td></tr><tr><td>MaineAFL-CIO</td><td>unions. Launched a Union Construction Academy of Maine</td><td>pre-apprenticeships serving diverse populations</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>pre-apprenticeship with focus on diverse populations.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>UALocal716Maine Plumbers and Pipefitters</td><td>Plumbers and pipefitters union. Offers resources, training, and apprenticeship opportunities</td><td>Engagement to design new worker and upskilling training opportunities related to energy efficient HVACemployment</td></tr><tr><td>AssociationofGeneral ContractorsofMaine</td><td>1Represents general contractors across Maine and offers a construction pre-apprenticeship program</td><td>Potential expansion ofconstructionpre- apprenticeship to include insulation/weatherization components. Support with contractor engagement.</td></tr><tr><td>Other Community based organizations</td><td>Promotionandrecruitmentof diverse and disadvantaged communities.Example CBOs includeMaineWorks,StartSmart, CEI Womens Business Center, New Mainers Resource Center,Office of New Americans, Gateway Community Services, Mano en Mano.</td><td>Promotionandrecruitmentofdiverse participants into trainingprograms</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Appendix B: Letters of Support  

See files attached below.  