# Maine - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-09-19 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-02 22:26:23 
 ***state** : Maine 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Installers/Contractors, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-09-18 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Efficiency Maine 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $35.7 million 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : New Affordable Multifamily Housing: Up to 100% of the project costs, up to
$8,000/unit for whole house HVAC heat pump equipment.  
Manufactured (Mobile) Homes: Up to 85% of the cost of ducted heat pump systems  
Installers/Contractors: $200/unit, up to $1,000, if built in a disadvantaged
community

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Low Income Residential, Multifamily Residential, Installers/Contractors, Installers/Contractors 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 85.0 % of cost 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income (AMI)
can receive the full rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150%
AMI can receive a partial rebate. See summary below and program website for
complete details._**

Maine’s HEAR program focuses itself on electrifying space heating and provides
rebates for efficient heat pump systems in buildings occupied by low-income
households, including new construction of affordable multifamily housing and
single-family manufactured/mobile homes.  

  * Up to 85% of the cost of ducted heat pump systems for income-eligible homeowners in single-wide manufactured/mobile homes

    *  Homeowners can pay $2,000 of the up-front project costs or finance the project through a [loan](https://www.efficiencymaine.com/manufactured-mobile-home-initiative-loans/) totaling $2,500 at 0% APR with $50/month over 50 months.

  * For affordable multifamily housing, owners of multifamily buildings planned to be built within which at least 50% of units will be reserved for low-income households can apply for a funding opportunity notice and receive up to 100% of the project costs, up to $8,000/unit for whole house HVAC heat pump equipment. 

    * Installation contractors are also eligible to receive an additional installation rebate of $200/unit, up to $1,000, if built in a disadvantaged community. 

Click below for more information on what offerings are provided for the
different types of buildings:

  * [New Affordable Multifamily Housing](https://www.efficiencymaine.com/initiative-for-electrification-in-new-affordable-multifamily-housing/)

  * [Manufactured (Mobile) Homes](https://www.efficiencymaine.com/at-home/manufactured-mobile-home-initiative/)

 
 