# New York - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-10-09 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-10-09 19:06:32 
 ***state** : New York 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $317,437,733 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Air sealing, insulation, and ventilation: $1,600  
Electrical wiring upgrade: $2,500  
Electrical service upgrade (panel box): $4,000  
Heat pump water heaters: $1,750  
Heat pumps: $8,000

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Low-income, single-family households: no-cost improvements up to
$10,000/project  
Moderate-income, single-family households: no-cost improvements up to
$5,000/project

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Duct/Air sealing, Insulation 
 ***Sectors*** : Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 1600.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 1750.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers 8000.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.
_**

****

In May 2024, New York became the[first
state](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-
first-state-nation-launch-historic-home-energy) in the nation to launch their
Home Energy Rebate program, created by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). The
first phase of the Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates (HEAR) program
is available for income-eligible New Yorkers and will be run through the
state’s existing
[EmPower+](https://programs.dsireusa.org/system/program/detail/2324/empower-
new-york) program. Additional IRA rebates, includes offers for multifamily
buildings and certain high-efficiency appliances, will become available later
in 2024.

 
 