# Colorado - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-11-11 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-11-11 14:34:58 
 ***state** : Colorado 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***budget*** : $53.6 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Energy Star-certified electric cold-climate heat pump for space heating and
cooling: Up to $8,000  
ENERGY STAR-certified electric non-cold-climate heat pump for space heating
and cooling: Up to $3,000  
Electrical panel upgrade: Up to $4,000  
Electrical wiring: Up to $2,500  
Energy Star-certified electric heat pump water heater: Up to $1,750  
Insulation, air sealing, and mechanical ventilation products: Up to $1,600  

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income (AMI)
can receive the full rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150%
AMI can receive a partial rebate. See summary below and program website for
complete details._**

The Colorado Energy Office (CEO) will receive a total of $140 million in
federal funding for two rebate programs for income-qualified Colorado
homeowners and renters to improve home energy efficiency and upgrade to
electric appliances. These upgrades will reduce greenhouse gas emissions,
improve indoor and outdoor air quality, and lower home energy costs. CEO will
roll out a limited initial phase of Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates
(HEAR) through the [Weatherization Assistance Program (WAP)
](https://energyoffice.colorado.gov/weatherization-assistance-program)to
provide home energy upgrades to low-income Coloradans receiving WAP services.
Direct-to-consumer rebates will be available to eligible Coloradans who are
not receiving WAP services starting sometime next year. The CEO will provide
more information on these rebates as soon as it is available.

 
 