# Michigan - Home Efficiency Rebate (HER) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-10-31 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-10-31 13:51:52 
 ***state** : Michigan 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy 
 ***budget*** : $105.7 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : To be determined, based on energy savings  
Energy savings 20-34% - $2,000 for non-low income, $12,000 for low income  
Energy savings 35%+ - $4,000 for non-low income, $20,000 for low income

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : $20,000

 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home Efficiency
Rebates (HER) Program. The IRA established the main parameters for this
program, but allowed the states to customize the program to meet their state-
specific needs. The program is designed to provide rebates for whole-home
energy improvements. Actual rebate amounts are determined by the level of
modeled or measured energy savings and the income level of the applicant. See
summary below and program website for complete details._**

The Home Energy Rebate programs will fund energy efficiency and
electrification upgrades for Michiganders, helping to reduce monthly utility
costs, reduce energy use and related climate impacts, and enhance comfort and
indoor air quality.

The amount of money available for Home Energy Rebates varies depending on the
following factors:  

\- The household's income,  

\- Identified energy efficiency upgrades for the home,

\- Estimated energy savings,

\- Rebate limits (established by DOE and EGLE),

\- The selected upgrades being installed, and

\- Total project costs.

The Home Efficiency Rebate (HER) program will provide rebates to reduce the
cost of energy-saving whole-home improvements in existing single-family and
multifamily buildings. Rebate amounts for the HOMES program will be based on
the amount of energy savings that can be achieved through a project, verified
by an energy model that is completed by a qualified program contractor.

  

 
 