# Georgia - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-11-15 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-02 22:25:01 
 ***state** : Georgia 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-11-13 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Georgia Environmental Finance Authority 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $109.2 million 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Heat Pump Water Heater: $1,750  
Heat Pump for Space Heating or Cooling: $8,000  
Electric Stove, Cooktop, Range, Oven, Heat Pump Clothes Dryer: $840  
Electric Load Service Center: $4,000  
Insulation, Air Sealing, Ventilation: $1,600  
Electric Wiring: $2,500

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Heat pump purchases require an assessment before installation to qualify for a
rebate.

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Duct/Air sealing, Insulation, Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Load Management 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 4.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 8.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income (AMI)
can receive the full rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150%
AMI can receive a partial rebate. See summary below and program website for
complete details._**

**_Georgia’s HEAR program is now available as a limited pilot and is expected
to fully launch by March 31, 2025. During the pilot program-approved
contractors will use their existing client base to deliver savings to eligible
households._**

Georgia’s HEAR program helps low-and-moderate income households saving money
on specific appliance purchases, including heat pumps, insulation, heat pump
water heaters, heat pump clothes dryers, among other appliances. Heat pump
purchases will require an assessment before installation to qualify.

For more information on Georgia’s HEAR program, [click
here](https://energyrebates.georgia.gov/home-electrification-and-appliance-
rebates).

 
 