# Energy Efficiency Investment Fund 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-11-22 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-11-22 21:32:02 
 ***state** : Delaware 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Industrial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, State Government, Agricultural 
 ***budget*** : $5,000,000 per fiscal year 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Lighting: Varies widely by type  
Appliances: Varies widely by project type  
Agricultural Equipment: Varies widely by project type  
  
HVAC:  
Cooling: $50 - $1000 per ton, varies by equipment  
Heating: $750 - $1,500, varies by equipment  
Water Heating: $400 - $1,000, varies by equipment  
  
Custom Projects:  
Electric Reductions: $0.20 - $0.30 per kWh, based on project Tier  
Gas Reductions:* $10 - $27 per MMBTU, based on project Tier  
*Fuel switch bonus: $2 - $8 per MMBTU of fossil fired reductions due to electrification.   
  
CHP Projects: $500/kW

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Up to 60% of eligible project costs AND  
Up to $250,000 per address per calendar year

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Equipment must be new

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Energy Efficiency Investment Fund (EEIF) program promotes the use of
energy efficient technologies by Delaware non-residential (commercial and
industrial) customers that are users of gas or electricity whose purchase of
those commodities from a distributor is subject to the public utility tax on
gas or electricity. For more information on who pays the public utility tax,
please see the Public Utilities chapter of the Delaware State Code (30 Del.C.
Ch. 55). According to 29 Del.C. §8030, DNREC shall give preference to those
applications proposing projects that are anticipated to produce the greatest
reduction in energy consumption per Fund dollar invested, improve
environmental performance, spur capital construction and facility
modernization, encourage job retention and creation, and are likely to be
substantially complete no later than one year following the issuance of
financing from the Fund.

**General Provisions**

All grants are on a first-come first-served basis. With the exception of
energy assessments, in no event shall the Fund provide grant funding for more
than 60% of the energy efficiency related costs of any proposed project nor
support projects already receiving support from the Green Energy Fund under
this chapter or the Strategic Fund under subchapter I-B of Chapter 50, Title
29 of the Delaware Code. DNREC reserves the right to suspend, terminate, or
modify the Fund at any time. DNREC may change program requirements, eligible
measures, or grant amounts at any time. DNREC is not obligated to approve any
submitted application that may result in exceeding the program budget. In the
event of a program change, submitted applications will be processed according
to program terms at the time of application pre-approval. Applicant (building
owner) or contractor on behalf of applicant is fully responsible for providing
a complete application and supporting documentation. Incomplete or missing
information will delay and/or cancel processing of application.

All equipment must be new, purchased and installed before the grant payment
can be issued. DNREC does not endorse any particular contractor, manufacturer,
product, or system in promoting this program.

The applicant agrees to allow DNREC or its program evaluator to have access to
the awarded facility’s energy use data for a period of at least two years
following installation of the incentivized measures. Additionally, applicant
agrees to DNREC publicly publishing awardee details such as but not limited
to: total grant award amount, facility address, total project cost, fuel type,
energy provider, fund appropriation, date completed, project type, dollar
savings per year, and applicant approved facility photographs.

**Pathways**

There are four grant pathways available to Delaware non-residential entities
with existing or new buildings tailored to differing needs and resources. All
four pathways can be paired with the DNREC State Energy Program Revolving Loan
Fund (SEPRLF) detailed in Section 4.1.5. Loan approval will not compromise an
applicant’s EEIF grant amount, meaning that loans can be used in combination
with a grant to help pay the balance of the project cost. Applications for
SEPRLF are available on the EEIF website (https://de.gov/eeif).

**Prescriptive Pathway Grants**

Prescribed measures contain technologies where energy savings can be predicted
with reasonable accuracy across all applications. The technologies currently
eligible for the program include lighting, HVAC & water heating, and
appliances & food services equipment. The program may modify or expand the
list of eligible measures under the prescriptive grant pathway at any time.
DNREC will notify applicants of any changes on the website and update any
published materials.

**Custom Pathway Grants**

The custom pathway grant option is designed to encourage non-standard energy
efficiency measures, including measures not listed in the prescriptive pathway
above and prescribed measures bundled into a comprehensive full facility
upgrade that maximizes energy savings and cost-effectiveness. Projects
qualifying under the custom pathway are generally more complex incorporating
aggressive measures that permanently raise the efficiency levels beyond that
of standard equipment. New construction project’s energy savings will be
determined as the difference between the proposed/installed ECM/system and the
current locally adopted energy code baseline parameters.

Retro-commissioning (RCx) measures may be eligible for the custom pathway with
restrictions as discussed in additional detail below. RCx measures include the
optimization and fine-tuning of existing buildings and systems in order to
make them operate optimally and more efficiently, typically through
scheduling, sequencing, set point optimization, and controls programming
strategies, focusing on the systems in place instead of replacing the existing
systems through a retrofit.

“AC Tune-Up” measures (e.g. refrigerant charge adjustment, coil cleaning,
airflow adjustment, etc.) for residential style AC units exceeding 65 kBTUh
capacity per unit may be eligible for the custom pathway. These measures must
be split into their respective activities performed and not bundled together –
e.g. specific calculations for a refrigerant charge adjustment, calculations
for an economizer repair, etc.

As of July 2024; to help growers maximize savings and boost productivity, the
EEIF program will support horticultural lighting projects for commercial
indoor agriculture operators.

The grant for a custom application will be paid at the following rates for
each tier, up to 60% of energy efficiency related costs, whichever is less.
Multi-tier and Comprehensive tier ECM’s must all be complete and final
approved to be paid at the tier level rate.

Electric Incentive - Single Tier: $0.20 / kWh, Multi-Tier: $0.25 / kWh,
Comprehensive: $0.30 / kWh

Gas Incentive* - Single Tier: $10 / MMBTU, Multi-Tier: $20 / MMBTU,
Comprehensive: $27 / MMBTU

 _*Fuel Switch Bonus: If measure is replacing a fossil fuel fired appliance
with an electric alternative, add value to gas incentive rate if applicable.
Single Tier: $2 / MMBTU, Multi-Tier: $5 / MMBTU, Comprehensive Tier: $8 /
MMBTU_

**Energy Assessment Pathway Grants**

For businesses in need of technical assistance to evaluate their facility for
cost effective energy efficient upgrades, grants are available to help with
the cost of the audit, feasibility study, and project design. Energy
assessment grant payment is structured to encourage identification and
installation of identified ECM’s.

An applicant’s contractor may perform a targeted or comprehensive energy
assessment (audit), create a facility’s energy assessment report, and submit
an Energy Assessment application with all required documentation and
supporting calculations discussed on the application within 30 days of audit
completion. DNREC will review and coordinate with the applicant on any
additional information needed to evaluate the application for approval. If the
application is approved, EEIF may award the customer up to the lesser of (1)
50% of the cost of their energy audit or (2) the audit caps of $5,000 for a
targeted energy audit or $10,000 for a comprehensive energy audit (see 5.3.2
below for definitions of each audit type). An additional amount, up to $5,000
for targeted audits and up to $10,000 for comprehensive audits, may be
available for applicants who implement measures identified through their
assessment AND complete a Prescriptive, Custom or CHP EEIF project. To qualify
for the additional audit fund reimbursement, the implemented ECM grant award
must exceed that of the total energy assessment grant.

**Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Pathway Grants**

The combined heat and power (CHP) pathway is designed to encourage the
development of CHP in Delaware. Unlike traditional systems that produce
electricity and heat separately, CHP, or cogeneration, is the concurrent
production of electricity and useful thermal energy from a single source of
energy. CHP systems are ideal for businesses with high annual hours of
operation and a high thermal load. CHP systems yield increased energy
efficiency, reduction in energy operating costs, and improvements in energy
resiliency.

Grants for CHP projects will be paid at a rate of $500/kW of the installed
system, up to 60% of the energy efficiency related costs, whichever is less.

**General Limitations**

The Fund will not pay more than 60% of the energy efficiency related project
cost for any proposed project as detailed on itemized invoices (see exception
for Energy Assessment Pathway in section 5.3). Program funds are limited.
Grant awards will not exceed $250,000 per individual address per calendar
year. DNREC reserves sole discretion to adjust the program grant caps.
Particular consideration will be placed on organizations that support DNREC’s
commitment to helping vital, yet vulnerable sectors of the community,
including: minority, women, and veteran owned businesses; small businesses
(defined by the Delaware Dept. of Small Business as 100 employees or less);
nonprofit organizations; educational institutions; state agencies; and local
governments. To ensure availability, funding must be reserved prior to
purchasing any equipment or beginning an audit or energy study.

See [Fund Guidelines](https://dnrec.delaware.gov/climate-coastal-
energy/efficiency/energy-efficiency-investment-fund/guidelines/) for the most
up-to-date information.

 
 