# Arizona – Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-12-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-12-12 18:24:58 
 ***state** : Arizona 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-08-29 04:00:00 
  Until funding is exhausted 
 ***administrator*** : Governor’s Office of Resiliency 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $76,421,080.00 
 ***additional technologies*** : Heat Pump Water Heaters, Air Source Heat Pumps, Heat Pump Clothes Dryers, Electric Panel Upgrades, Electric Wiring 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Heat Pump Water Heater: up to $1,750  
Heat Pump for Space Heating: up to $8,000  
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer: up to $840  
Electric Load Service Center (electric panel upgrades): up to $4,000  
Electrical Wiring: up to $2,500  
Insulation, Air Sealing, Ventilation: up to $1,600

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Up to $14,000 per household  
Low-income: up to 100% of costs  
Moderate-income: up to 50% of costs  

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Not specified

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Equipment must be ENERGY STAR certified

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Equipment must be installed by an authorized program contractor

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Building Insulation, Duct/Air sealing, Insulation 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1600.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1750.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 8000.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.**_

_**Arizona is launching the HEAR program in phases. As of December 202****4,
only rebates for single-family homes are available. A multifamily pilot is
expected in Q2 2025.**_

The Arizona Governor’s Office of Resiliency will receive $76 million in
federal funding for the HEAR Program. Incentives are available to owners of
single-family homes who earn less than 80% of their county’s AMI or who
participate in certain state or federal benefit programs. Residents between
80% and 150% of their county’s AMI are eligible for reduced rebates.

The maximum incentive is $14,000 per household; rebates are also capped at
100% of project costs for low-income residents (80% AMI threshold) and 50% of
project costs for moderate-income residents (150% AMI threshold). When
applicable, technologies must be ENERGY STAR certified and/or installed by an
authorized program contractor.

Incentives are available for:

  * Heat Pump Water Heaters: up to $1,750
  * Heat Pumps for Space Heating: up to $8,000
  * Heat Pump Clothes Dryers: up to $840
  * Electric Load Service Center (electric panel upgrades): up to $4,000
  * Electrical Wiring: up to $2,500
  * Insulation, Air Sealing, Ventilation: up to $1,600  
  

 
 