# Rhode Island – Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-12-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-12-12 18:14:10 
 ***state** : Rhode Island 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-09-17 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2031-09-30 04:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : Office of Energy Resources 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $31,820,030.00 
 ***additional technologies*** : Heat Pump Clothes Dryers, Residential Cooking Equipment, Electric Panel Upgrades, Electric Wiring 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Low-Income:  
Electric Load Service Center: up to $4,000  
Electric Wiring: up to $2,500  
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer: up to $1,840  
Electric Stove, Induction Cooktop, Range, or Oven (switch from non-electric
model): up to $1,840

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Not specified

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Not specified

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Equipment must be ENERGY STAR certified

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Equipment must be installed by an authorized program contractor

 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.**_

_**Rhode Island is launching the HEAR program in phases. As of December 2024,
only the low-income track (80% AMI threshold) is available. The moderate-
income track (150% AMI threshold) is expected in 2025.**_

The Rhode Island Office of Energy Resources, will receive $32 million in
federal funding for the HEAR Program. Incentives are available to owners of
single-family homes, owners of multi-family homes, and renters with landlord
permission who earn less than 80% of their county’s AMI or who participate in
certain state or federal benefit programs. Rhode Island is partnerning with
local [Community Action Agencies](https://www.ricommunityaction.org/) to
review resident eligibility and provide incentives for the low-income track.  

Incentives are available for:

  * Electric Load Service Center (electric panel upgrades): up to $4,000 for low-income; up to $2,000 for moderate-income
  * Electric Wiring: up to $2,500 for low-income; up to $1,250 for moderate-income
  * Heat Pump Clothes Dryer: up to $1,840 for low-income; up to $420 for moderate income
  * Electric Stove, Induction Cooktop, Range, or Oven (switching from a non-electric model): up to $1,840 for low-income; up to $420 for moderate income  
  
  

 
 