# New Mexico - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2024-12-12 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2024-12-12 18:12:09 
 ***state** : New Mexico 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2024-09-03 04:00:00 
 ***end date** : 2028-12-31 05:00:00  or until funding is exhausted 
 ***administrator*** : Energy, Mineral and Natural Resources Department, Energy Conservation and Management Division 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $43,742,970.00 
 ***additional technologies*** : Heat Pump Clothes Dryers, Residential Cooking Equipment, Heat Pump Water Heaters, Air Source Heat Pumps, Electric Panel Upgrades, Electric Wiring 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Currently available:  
Wall, Ceiling/Attic, Floor, and Foundation Insulation: up to $1,600

 
 ***Maximum Incentive*** : Up to $14,000 per household

 
 ***Eligible System Size*** : Not specified

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Equipment must be ENERGY STAR certified

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Equipment must be installed by an authorized program contractor

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Building Insulation, Duct/Air sealing, Insulation 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1600.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1750.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 840.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.**_

_**New Mexico is launching the HEAR program in phases. As of December 2024,
only the Insulation rebate is available. Residents can[sign
up](https://clean.energy.nm.gov/programs/hear/#contact-footer) to receive
updates, or visit the program website for more information.**_

The New Mexico Energy Conservation and Management Division of the Energy,
Mineral, and Natural Resources Department will receive $44 million in federal
funding for the HEAR Program. Incentives are available to owners of single-
family homes, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, or townhomes who earn less than
80% of their countyâ€™s AMI or who participate in certain state or federal
benefit programs. Renters with landlord permission, landlords/owners of multi-
unit properties, and landlords/owners of multi-story buildings with shared
walls may also be eligible, and can expect eligibility to participate by the
end of 2024.

The maximum rebate per address is $14,000. When applicable, technologies must
be ENERGY STAR certified and/or installed by an authorized program contractor.

Currently available technologies include:

  * **Insulation, Air Sealing, and Ventilation:** Wall, Ceiling/Attic, Floor, and Foundation Insulation (up to $1,600)

Future eligible technologies include:

  * **Appliances:** Heat Pump Clothes Dryer (up to $840, one per household); Electric or Induction Cooktop, Stove, Range, or Oven (up to $840, one per household); Heat Pump Water Heater (up to $1,750)
  * I**nsulation, Air Sealing, and Ventilation:** Air Sealing Upgrades (up to $1,600)
  * **Heating and Cooling:** Central (Ducted) or Un-Ducted (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pump Systems (up to $8,000); Un-Ducted (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pumps (up to $8,000)
  * **Electric Upgrades:** Electric Service Panel Load Upgrade (up to $4,000); Electric Wiring (up to $2,500)  
  

 
 