TITLE 29 ( ../../INDEX.HTML ) $>$ CHAPTER 80 (../INDEX.HTML)  

# TITLE 29  

# State Government  

# Departments of Government  

CHAPTER 8O. Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control  

Subchapter I. Natural Resources and Environmental Control  

# 8001. Establishment of Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control  

A Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control is established and shall have, in addition to the other powers, duties and functions vested in the Department by this chapter, the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Highway Department pursuant to Chapter 45 of Title 7.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8001;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  221A (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 57&chapter=739);  

# § 8002. Secretary; division directors; Acting Secretary; appointment [Effective until fulfillment of the contingency in 84 Del. Laws, c. 455, § 20].  

(a) The administrator and head of the Department shall be the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, who shall be a person qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office. The Secretary shall be appointed by the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Senate and shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The Secretary shall be paid an annual salary not in excess of $\$34,000$ . The Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall become a bona fide resident of the State within 6 months after his or her appointment; provided, however, that upon good cause shown, the Governor may grant an additional extension of 6 months. After becoming a resident of the State, the Secretary shall continuously be a resident of the State as long as he or she retains the office. Failure to obtain or retain such residency shall be an automatic resignation from said office.  

(b) In the event the position of Secretary is vacant, the Governor, by appointment, shall have the power to fill the position or positions of division director as are vacant. Directors so appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor, and, upon the position of Secretary being filled, such directors may be removed by the Secretary with the written approval of the Governor.  

(c) In the event of death, resignation, temporary incapacity or removal of the Secretary and prior to the appointment of a successor, the Governor may appoint the Deputy Secretary of the Department to serve as Acting Secretary. The Secretary or the Acting Secretary may, during an absence from the State, appoint the Deputy Secretary or a Division Director of the Department to serve as Acting Secretary during such absence. In either case, the Acting Secretary shall have all the powers and shall perform all the duties and functions of the Secretary during the absence or incapacity or until a successor is duly qualified and appointed.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8002;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  69 Del. Laws, c. 291, §  225 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=69&chapter=291);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=186);  72 Del. Laws, c. 140, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=72&chapter=140);  72 Del. Laws, c. 395, §  275 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 72&chapter=395);  

# § 8002. Secretary; division directors; Acting Secretary; appointment [Effective upon fulfillment of the contingency in 84 Del. Laws, c. 455, § 20].  

(a) The administrator and head of the Department is the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (“Secretary”), wh must be a person qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office.  

(1) The Secretary is appointed, confirmed, and holds office as provided in § 10 of Article III of the Delaware Constitution.  

(2) The Secretary is to be paid an annual salary as determined by the General Assembly in the annual appropriations act.  

(3) The Secretary must obtain and retain residency in this State as provided in § 10 of Article III of the Delaware Constitutio (b) In the event the position of Secretary is vacant, the Governor, by appointment, shall have the power to fill the position or positions of division director as are vacant. Directors so appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor, and, upon the position of Secretary being filled, such directors may be removed by the Secretary with the written approval of the Governor.  

(c) In the event of death, resignation, temporary incapacity or removal of the Secretary and prior to the appointment of a successor, the Governor may appoint the Deputy Secretary of the Department to serve as Acting Secretary. The Secretary or the Acting Secretary may, during an absence from the State, appoint the Deputy Secretary or a Division Director of the Department to serve as Acting Secretary during such absence. In either case, the Acting Secretary shall have all the powers and shall perform all the duties and functions of the Secretary during the absence or incapacity or until a successor is duly qualified and appointed.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8002;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  69 Del. Laws, c. 291, §  225 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=69&chapter=291);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=186);  72 Del. Laws, c. 140, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=72&chapter=140);  72 Del. Laws, c. 395, §  275 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=72&chapter=395);  84 Del. Laws, c. 455, § 6 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=84&chapter=455);  

# § 8003. Powers, duties and functions of the Secretary.  

The Secretary may:  

(1) Supervise, direct and account for the administration and operation of the Department, its divisions, subdivisions, offices, including an Office of Natural Resources and an Office of Environmental Protection, functions, and employees. The Office of Natural Resources may include the Divisions of Fish and Wildlife, Parks and Recreation, and Watershed Stewardship. The Office of Environmental Protection may include the Divisions of Air Quality, Waste and Hazardous Substances, and Water.  

(2) Appoint and fix the salary, with the written approval of the Governor, of the following personnel, who may be removed from office by the Secretary, with the written approval of the Governor, and who shall have such powers, duties and functions in the administration and operation of the Department as may be assigned by the Secretary:  

a. A Deputy Secretary position in the Department who shall be known as the Deputy Secretary and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

b. A Director of the Division of Fish and Wildlife, who shall be known as the Director of Fish and Wildlife and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

c. A Director of the Division of Parks and Recreation, who shall be known as the Director of Parks and Recreation and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

d. A Director of the Division of Watershed Stewardship, who shall be known as the Director of Watershed Stewardship and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

e. A Director of the Division of Air Quality, who shall be known as the Director of Air Quality and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

f. A Director of the Division of Water, who shall be known as the Director of Water and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office;  

g. A Director of the Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances who shall be known as the Director of Waste and Hazardous Substances and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office; and  

h. [Repealed.]  

i. A Director of the Division of Climate, Coastal and Energy, who shall be known as the Division of Climate, Coastal and Energy, who shall serve as the State Energy Coordinator and who shall be qualified by training and experience to perform the duties of the office.  

(3) Appoint such additional personnel as may be necessary for the administration and operation of the Department. Those positions in the classified service shall be hired through the Office of Personnel. Those positions not in the classified service shall not be hired through the Office of Personnel and shall not receive an appointment exceeding 180 days in any calendar year. No pro rata share of employee administration costs shall be paid to the Office of Personnel;  

(4) Establish, consolidate, abolish or transfer or combine the powers, duties and functions of the divisions, subdivisions and offices within the Department as the Secretary, with the written approval of the Governor, may deem necessary, provided that all powers, duties and functions required by law shall be provided for and maintained;  

(5) Make and enter into any and all contracts, agreements or stipulations, and retain, employ and contract for the services of private and public consultants, research and technical personnel and to procure by contract, consulting, research, technical and other services and facilities, whenever the same shall be deemed by the Secretary necessary or desirable in the performance of the functions of the Department and whenever funds shall be available for such purposes. All necessary legal services shall be provided pursuant to Chapter 25 of this title;  

(6) Delegate any of the Secretary’s powers, duties or functions to a director of a division except the Secretary’s power to remove employees of the Department or to fix their compensation;  

(7) Establish and promulgate such rules and regulations governing the administration and operation of the Department as may be deemed necessary by the Secretary and which are not inconsistent with the laws of this State;  

(8) Maintain such facilities throughout the State as may be required for the effective and efficient operation of the Department;  

(9) Adopt an official seal or seals for the Department;  

(10) To require, prior to any exploration or exploitation of offshore minerals, or any pumping or transfer operation of offshore minerals from a ship to another ship, or from a ship to land, or vice versa, that a bond in the amount of at least $\$1,000,000$ be posted to secure to the State any damages and claims arising from the operations;  

(11) The Secretary is empowered to administer and distribute funds in the form of grants to qualified agencies for the construction of treatment works from such funds as may be appropriated from time to time for this purpose.  

a. Definitions. — 1. “Council” shall mean the Water Infrastructure Advisory Council.  

2. “Department” shall mean the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

3. “Inflow and infiltration” shall mean any rainwater, melted snow, ground water or stream water entering a sanitary sewer system designed to transport sewage and industrial wastes only.  

4. “Qualified agency” shall mean any legally incorporated town or city, Levy Courts or other governments of the counties, state agencies, nonprofit corporations providing water or wastewater services as a regulated utility pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service Commission, and sewer districts authorized by law and organized to provide publicly owned and operated treatment works.  

5. “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control or the Secretary’s duly authorized representative.  

6. “Treatment works” shall mean any device and system used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, “domestic wastewater” as defined in Chapter 60 of Title 7, or industrial wastes of a liquid nature, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical cost over the estimated life of the works, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities and improvements to exclude or minimize inflow and infiltration.  

b. Treatment works projects. — 1. The Secretary shall promulgate procedures for the administration and distribution of grants.  

2. The State’s share of any treatment works shall be a minimum of $25\%$ of the eligible costs as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq., only if:  

A. The treatment works, having received federal approval, has awarded contracts for start of construction after January 1, 1970; B. The treatment works has received a grant offer from the Environmental Protection Agency prior to October 18, 1972; or C. The treatment works has received a grant offer from the Environmental Protection Agency after September 30, 1984, and the treatment works project has not been segmented or phased prior to October 1, 1984, entitling it to a $75\%$ federal grant.  

3. The state’s share of any treatment works which has received a grant offer from the federal government pursuant to § 202 of PL 92-500 [33 U.S.C. § 1282] shall be a minimum of $10\%$ of the treatment works cost. The acquisition of real property shall not be included in the project cost  

4. The state’s share of any treatment works may be reduced by the Secretary if the cumulative share of state and federal grants exceed $85\%$ of the total treatment works costs.  

5. The Secretary may, with the consent of the Governor, make emergency grants and/or loans to any treatment works if the qualified agency demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, the need for such funds. No project shall receive more than $33^{1}/_{3}$ percent of the total project cost as state grants except as provided in paragraph (11)c.2.B. of this section.  

6. No treatment works project shall receive a state grant unless it is certified by the Secretary to receive priority for funding based on the priority list.  

c. Inflow and infiltration control. — 1. The Secretary shall promulgate procedures for making grants to qualified agencies for the purpose of reducing infiltration and inflow into existing sewer systems.  

2. No inflow and infiltration reduction project shall receive more than:  

A. $10\%$ of the costs of such a project if the project also receives a federal grant;   
B. $50\%$ of the costs of such a project if the project is required by the Department to improve the performance of the sewerage system and federal funds are not available;   
C. The cost of legal, engineering and administrative services, and the cost of television inspection shall be included in the cost of the inflow and infiltration reduction project.  

d. Priority list. — 1. The Secretary shall, at least annually, submit to the Council a list of treatment works projects and inflow-infiltration reduction projects. The list shall be comprised of applications submitted by qualified agencies pursuant to procedures promulgated by the Secretary and arranged in an order of priority.  

2. The Council shall hold a public hearing on the list submitted by the Secretary. The Council shall review the testimony received and comment upon, approve or rearrange the priority list. While rearranging the priority list, the Council shall give due recognition to regulations promulgated by the Department and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The Secretary shall make grants utilizing the priority list and all applicable procedures and regulations.  

3. The Secretary’s list shall become the approved list if the Council fails to hold a hearing, comment upon, approve or rearrange the list within 30 days of submission to the Council.  

e. Appropriations and disbursements. — The Secretary may allocate up to $15\%$ of the total funds appropriated by the General Assembly for state grants to fund projects specified in paragraph (11)c. of this section.  

. Advancements. — 1. The Secretary may allocate up to $5\%$ of the total funds appropriated by the General Assembly for state grants to a revolving dvancement fund.  

2. The Secretary may adopt procedures for providing advancement to qualified agencies for the purpose of initiating the necessary planning studies required under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. § 1314 et seq.) and the federal grant regulations promulgated thereunder, or for state funded projects. A qualified agency may receive an advancement when it is demonstrated by such agency to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the referenced planning activities place an undue financial burden on the agency.  

3. When a qualified agency receives federal and/or state grants for a project for which an advancement is made, and construction of the project commences, the amount of the advancement shall be subtracted from the state grant payment. In no event shall an advancement under this paragraph entitle a qualified agency to a greater amount of state grant moneys than specified in this paragraph.  

4. In the event a qualified agency fails to proceed with the construction of project after the completion of necessary planning studies, the Secretary may seek recovery of moneys advanced to the qualified agency. If the qualified agency refuses to return advancement moneys after written request by the Secretary, the Secretary may seek the recovery of such advancement money in a civil lawsuit in the Superior Court.  

(12) The Secretary is empowered to administer a state revolving loan program in accordance with the requirements set forth in Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [33 U.S.C. § 1381 et seq.].  

a. Definitions. — 1. “Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund” shall mean the special fund created pursuant to this subsection.  

2. “Department” shall mean the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

3. “Federal Water Pollution Control Act” shall mean the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq. and regulations promulgated thereunder.  

4. “Person” shall mean any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, federal agency, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, state, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a state or any interstate body. For purposes of this subsection, the term “municipality” includes a nonprofit corporation providing water or wastewater services as a regulated utility pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service Commission.  

5. “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

b. Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund. — There is hereby established a “Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund” as contemplated by and to be administered pursuant to Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. All federal capitalization grants received pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, any state reallocations of federal construction grants funds pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, all required matching state funds and all loan repayments received by the State pursuant to any loan agreement made under the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, shall be credited to the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund. In addition, all  

proceeds of obligations issued by the State and supported by a pledge or other interest in the funds in the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, shall be held in or for such Fund. The Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund shall be deemed to be a special fund and shall be approved by the Governor for the following purposes:  

1. To accept and retain the funds and revenues specified herein;  

2. To make loans to eligible persons for qualifying purposes under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;  

3. To buy or refinance debt obligations of eligible persons for qualifying purposes under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;  

4. To guarantee or purchase insurance for obligations of eligible persons for qualifying purposes under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;  

5. To make loans to eligible persons to implement a nonpoint source pollution control management program under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;  

6. To make loans to eligible persons to implement an estuary conservation and management program under the Federal Water Pollution Contro Act;  

7. To be a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on revenue bonds of the State if the proceeds of the sale of such bonds will be deposited in the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund;  

8. To earn interest on amounts on deposit in such Fund;  

9. To finance the reasonable costs incurred by the State in the administration of the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund as permitted under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;  

10. To accomplish any other allowable purpose under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.  

The Department is designated as the administering agency of the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund and shall have such powers necessary to administer such Fund including, but not limited to, the power to enter into capitalization grant agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency, the power to accept capitalization grant awards made under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the power to manage and make loans from the Fund in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Water Protection Control Act. The Department shall take all actions necessary to secure for the State the benefits of Title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.  

Standards and procedures. — Before making any loan from the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, the Department shall specify:  

1. Standards for the eligibility of borrowers and the type of projects to be financed with loans;  

2. Procedures for the preparation, review and approval of the “project priority” list which must contain those projects for which financial assistance is sought;  

3. Procedures for submitting applications for financial assistance and procedures for Department approval of such applications;  

4. Procedures for completing an environmental review of projects pursuant to paragraph (12)d. of this section;  

5. Conditions for financial assistance; and  

6. Other relevant criteria, standards or procedures.  

Standards and procedures specified under this paragraph shall provide for a final approval by the Water Infrastructure Advisory Council of any loan from the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund and the “project priority” list.  

d. The Secretary shall conduct an environmental review of projects otherwise qualifying under this subsection which shall be sufficiently consistent with the provisions for environmental review established under 40 C.F.R., Part 6, and the Secretary’s environmental review standards and procedures established in Title 7.  

(13) Establish, supervise, direct and account for the operations and functions of the personnel responsible for the enforcement of the laws, regulations, rules, permits, licenses, orders and program requirements of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control. In exercising the powers, duties and functions under this paragraph, the Secretary may:  

a. Employ enforcement personnel who shall be officially known as law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, but who may be designated as Natural Resources Police Officers and shall include environmental protection officers, Fish and Wildlife Agents and park rangers;  

b. Classify law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control according to rank, title or duties assigned a deemed appropriate;  

c. Assign or reassign law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control to the divisions, subdivisions and offices of the Department to perform enforcement duties as deemed appropriate;  

d. Provide law-enforcement training for law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control; and e. Establish a central filing system to record and maintain a record of violations of statutes, rules, regulations, permit conditions, licenses, orders and program requirements administered by the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(14) The Secretary is empowered to apply for and accept grants which the Secretary deems necessary or desirable to the performance of the functions of the Department, subject to Chapter 76 of Title 29. The Secretary is empowered to administer and distribute those funds in the form of grants to qualified entities when funds are available for such purposes. Qualified entities may include, but are not limited to, state, county and local agencies, educational institutions, not-for-profit organizations, corporations, and other businesses, and individual citizens.  

(15) Not, any other law or regulation to the contrary notwithstanding, have authority to enter into any agreement with any person or entity subject to the Secretary’s review or control which requires said person or entity to pay moneys to any third party other than the Department as part of an enforcement action, or to induce the Department to refrain from taking an enforcement action provided said limitation shall not apply for any provision negotiated as part of a settlement agreement or conciliatory order that would allow such person to undertake a supplemental environmental project that would result in an environmental benefit beyond that which is required under existing or anticipated regulations or standards.  

(16) a. The Secretary shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the State Energy Office, and shall supervise all the required and discretionary programs currently underway within the State Energy Office. These include programs to promote energy efficient lighting and thermal systems, transportation programs aimed at reducing traffic and fuel usage and the procurement of energy efficient products and services. In addition, the State Energy Office shall work in cooperation with the State Public Service Commission and other State agencies and departments in the promotion of renewable fuels and energy supplies, improving the adequacy and reliability of energy supplies in Delaware and in assessing the environmental consequences of energy usage in Delaware. Further, the Secretary shall develop suitable and appropriate performance measures for the Energy Office and shall submit them as a component of the Department’s annual budget submission.  

b. The Secretary shall also be responsible for development of a state facilities energy management plan. The state facilities energy management plan shall be developed in conjunction with the Division of Facilities Management to ensure that energy conservation methods are employed in all new and existing facilities owned by state agencies or local school districts. The plan shall be approved by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and Director of the Office of Management and Budget. The state facilities energy management plan shall provide for, but not be limited to:  

1. Development and maintenance of energy conservation standards for the purpose of reviewing the design, construction, renovation and maintenance of facilities owned by state agencies or local school districts;   
2. A program of energy audits of facilities owned by state agencies or local school districts in cooperation with designated representatives of said facilities;   
3. Development, maintenance and distribution to facilities owned by state agencies or local school districts of guidelines, recommendations and technical assistance for energy conservation measures to be employed, installed and monitored in said facilities;  

4. A detailed description of the estimated energy and monetary savings, and environmental benefit  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8003;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 579 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 57&chapter=579);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  222 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=57&chapter=739);  58 Del. Laws, c. 76 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=58&chapter=76);  59 Del. Laws, c. 176, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 59&chapter=176);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=59&chapter=372);  59 Del. Laws, c. 526, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=59&chapter=526);  60 Del. Laws, c. 258, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=60&chapter=258);  60 Del. Laws, c. 448, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=60&chapter=448);  64 Del. Laws, c. 331, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=64&chapter=331);  65 Del. Laws, c. 431, §§  1, 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 65&chapter=431);  67 Del. Laws, c. 291, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=67&chapter=291);  69 Del. Laws, c. 291, §§  226, 227 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=69&chapter=291);  69 Del. Laws, c. 303, §§  2-4 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=69&chapter=303);  70 Del. Laws, c. 74, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=74);  70 Del. Laws, c. 105, §  25 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=70&chapter=105);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=70&chapter=186);  72 Del. Laws, c. 482, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=72&chapter=482);  73 Del. Laws, c. 74, §  150(c) (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=73&chapter=74);  74 Del. Laws, c. 110, §  121 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=74&chapter=110);  75 Del. Laws, c. 88, §  16(5) (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=75&chapter=88);  75 Del. Laws, c. 353, §  81(a), (b) (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=75&chapter=353);  77 Del. Laws, c. 430, §§  61-65 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=77&chapter=430);  78 Del. Laws, c. 127, §§  1, 13, 14 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=78&chapter=127);  78 Del. Laws, c. 290, §  230 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=290);  79 Del. Laws, c. 40, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 79&chapter=40);  82 Del. Laws, c. 201, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume $\left\{=\right.$ 82&chapte $\vartriangleright$ 201);  84 Del. Laws, c. 141, § 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=84&chapter=141);  

# 003A. Powers, duties and functions of law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(a) The law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall see to the enforcement of all laws, regulations, rules, permits, licenses, orders, and program requirements of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(b) Law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall have police powers similar to those of constables, peace officers, and other police officers when enforcing the laws, regulations, rules, permits, licenses, orders, and program requirements of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control. Such police powers shall include powers of investigation, search, seizure, detention, and arrest conferred by law on constables, peace officers, and other police officers.  

(c) Law-enforcement officers of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control have the authority to serve and return summonses, subpoenas, and warrants.  

(d) Nothing contained in this section may be construed to limit the statutory enforcement authorities, responsibilities, or powers of enforcement personne of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(e) If a law-enforcement officer of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control finds that a violation of a requirement under the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control occurs in a manufactured home community, the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control must send a copy of the notice of the violation, summons, or order to all of the following:  

(1) The elected Council or Levy Court members of the county in which the violation occurred.   
(2) The elected Council members of the municipality in which the violation occurred.   
(3) The State Representatives and Senators in whose district the violation occurred (4) The Department of Justice.   
(5) The Delaware Manufactured Home Relocation Authority.  

59 Del. Laws, c. 526, §  3 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=59&chapter=526);  63 Del. Laws, c. 436, §§  1, 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=63&chapter=436);  70 Del. Laws, c. 105, §§  26-28 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=105);  78 Del. Laws, c. 266, §  20 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=266);  83 Del. Laws, c. 341, § 10 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=83&chapter=341);  

# § 8004. Relocation assistance.  

The Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control is hereby empowered to expend state funds appropriated to the Department for land acquisition; to make relocation payments and to provide assistance in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970; provided, that the Secretary must expend funds for this purpose that are federally reimbursable under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Public Law 91-646.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8003A;  58 Del. Laws, c. 195. (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=58&chapter=195.);  

# § 8005. Division of Fish and Wildlife.  

The Division of Fish and Wildlife is established having powers, duties and functions as follows:  

(1) The Division of Fish and Wildlife shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in:  

a. The Board of Game and Fish Commissioners of this State pursuant to Chapters 1, 3 [repealed], 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 17 and 58 [repealed] of Title 7.   
b. The Delaware Commission of Shell Fisheries pursuant to Chapters 19, 21, 23 and 27 of Title 7 and Chapter 21 of Title 23.  

(2) The administrative, ministerial, fiscal and clerical functions of the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission set forth in Chapter 15 of Title 7 shall be performed by the Division of Fish and Wildlife. Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, the membership, remuneration, organization, meetings, powers, duties and functions of the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission shall remain as prescribed by Chapter 15 of Title 7.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8004;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  

# § 8006. Council on Game and Fish.  

(a) There is established the Council on Game and Fish.  

(b) The Council on Game and Fish shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director of Fish and Wildlife and shall consider matters relating to the protection, conservation and propagation of all forms of fish and protected wildlife of this State and such other matters as may be referred to it by the Governor, Secretary of the Department or Director of Fish and Wildlife. The Council may also study, research, plan and advise the Director, the Secretary, and the Governor on matters it deems appropriate to enable the Division to function in the best possible manner.  

(c) The Council on Game and Fish shall be composed of 9 members who shall be appointed for 3-year terms by the Governor.  

(d) At least 4, but no more than 5, of the members of the Council shall be affiliated with 1 of the major political parties. At least 3, but no more than 4, of the members of the Council shall be affiliated with the other major political party; provided, however, that there shall be no more than a bare majority representation of 1 major political party over the other major political party. Any person who declines to announce such person’s political affiliation shall also be eligible for appointment as a member of the Council.  

(e) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incident to thei duties as members of the Council.  

(f) A Chairperson of the Council shall be chosen by the members of the Council from among its members and shall serve in that capacity for a term of 1 year and shall be eligible for reelection.  

(g) Any replacement appointment to the Council to fill a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term shall be filled for the remainder of the term.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8005;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  238 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 57&chapter=739);  63 Del. Laws, c. 316, §§  1, 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=63&chapter=316);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=70&chapter=186);  

# § 8006A. Council on Recreational Fishing Funding.  

(a) There is established the Council on Recreational Fishing Funding  

(b) The Council on Recreational Fishing Funding shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director of Fish and Wildlife and shall consider matters relative to funding of fishery-related projects as related to this State and such other matters as may be referred to it by the Governor, Secretary of the Department or Director of Fish and Wildlife.  

(c) The Council on Recreational Fishing Funding shall be composed of 10 members as follows:  

(1) Six members appointed by the Governor;  

(2) One member appointed by the President Pro Tempore of the Senate;  

(3) One member appointed by the Speaker of the House;  

(4) The President of the Delaware Mobile Surf Fisherman Association or a designee appointed by the President;  

(5) The Director of the Division of Fish and Wildlife or a designee appointed by the Director to serve as an ex-officio nonvoting member.  

(d) Appointments made by the Governor shall be appointed for a 3-year term and all other members shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authorit  

(e) The Council shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair.  

(f) The Division ex-officio nonvoting member shall prepare minutes of each Council meeting. These minutes must be approved by a quorum of Council members in order to be official.  

(g) All members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incident to their duties as members of the Council from the fishing license account.  

(h) The Council shall meet no less than once per year. The Council shall provide nonbinding advice to the Department on fishery related construction priorities for the expenditure of funds generated from the sale of recreational fishing licenses in the coming year.  

6 Del. Laws, c. 71, §  14 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=76&chapter=71);  82 Del. Laws, c. 96, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? olume=82&chapter=96);  

# § 8007. Council on Shell Fisheries.  

(a) There is established the Council on Shell Fisheries.  

(b) The Council on Shell Fisheries shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director of Fish and Wildlife and shall consider matters relating to the control and direction of the shellfish industry and the protection, conservation and propagation of shellfish of this State and such other matters as may be referred to it by the Governor, Secretary of the Department or Director of Fish and Wildlife. The Council may also study, research, plan and advise the Director, the Secretary and the Governor on matters it deems appropriate to enable the Division to function in the best possible manner.  

(c) The Council on Shell Fisheries shall be composed of 7 members who shall be appointed by the Governor. The Council shall be composed of the following members:  

One person engaged in commercial lobstering or conching;  

One person engaged in commercial crabbing;  

One person engaged in commercial oystering;  

One person engaged in commercial clamming;  

One person knowledgeable in marine fisheries;  

One person representing recreational shell fishing;  

One person, the Chairperson, to serve at the pleasure of the Governor.  

The terms of the members shall be staggered. The first 2 appointees shall serve for a term of 1 year, the next 2 appointees shall serve for a term of 2 years and the next 2 shall serve for a term of 3 years. Thereafter, all new appointees shall serve for a term of 3 years.  

(d) At least 3, but no more than 4, of the members of the Council shall be affiliated with 1 of the major political parties and at least 2, but no more than 3, of the members of the Council shall be affiliated with the other major political party; provided, however, there shall be no more than a bare majority representation of 1 major political party over the other major political party. Any person who declines to announce such person’s political affiliation shall also be eligible for appointment as a member of the Council. Additionally, at least 1 member of the Council shall be a resident of New Castle County, at least 1 member of the Council shall be a resident of Kent County and at least 1 member of the Council shall be a resident of Sussex County.  

(e) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incident to thei duties as members of the Council.  

(f) Any replacement appointment to the Council to fill a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term shall be filled for the remainder of the term.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8006;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  239 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 57&chapter=739);  59 Del. Laws, c. 238, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=59&chapter=238);  67 Del. Laws, c. 289, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=67&chapter=289);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 70&chapter=186);  73 Del. Laws, c. 294, §§  1, 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=73&chapter=294);  

# § 8008. Division of Parks and Recreation.  

The Division of Parks and Recreation is hereby established having powers, duties and functions as follows:  

(1) The Division of Parks and Recreation shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the State Park Commission of Delaware pursuant to Chapters 45, 47 and 58 [repealed] of Title 7.  

(2) To help supplement general funds the Division of Parks and Recreation shall be authorized to solicit donations, sponsorships and sell advertisement to support park operations, to maintain park facilities and to support park programs including but not limited to concerts and events. All of the funds collected pursuant to this paragraph shall be deposited in the General Fund of this State and designated solely for park operations and maintenance. Persons or entities that donate, sponsor or advertise shall receive no special benefits other than, at the Division’s discretion, recognition in the park program guides, website and/or at the parks.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8007;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  223 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 57&chapter=739);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, §§  3, 4 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=59&chapter=372);  78 Del. Laws, c. 209, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=209);  80 Del. Laws, c. 128, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=80&chapter=128);  

# § 8009. Parks and Recreation Council.  

(a) There is established the Parks and Recreation Council.  

(b) The Parks and Recreation Council shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Director of Parks and Recreation and shall consider matters related to the planning, acquisition, development, management, conservation, and programming of lands and services under the jurisdiction of the Division, and such other matters as may be referred to it by the Governor, the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control or the Director. The Council shall review and recommend to the Department the approval of funding from the Outdoor Recreation Parks and Trails (ORPT) program for park development projects and serve as the review authority for other state and federal funding programs if called upon to do so. The Council may also study, research, plan, and advise the Director, the Secretary, and the Governor on matters it deems appropriate to enable the Division to function in the best manner possible. The Council may also recommend to the Department for adoption, after public hearing, any rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out any provisions of the section.  

c) The Parks and Recreation Council shall be composed of 16 members who shall be appointed as follows:  

(1) Eleven members shall be appointed by the Governor and shall be eligible for reappointment. The term of any member serving shall be for 3 years.  

(2) At least 6 of the 11 members appointed by the Governor shall have experience or expertise, or both, in the management of recreation programs and parks. The remaining members may be composed of other related disciplines and interests including cultural affairs, trails and greenways, fish and wildlife, tourism, finance, conservation, marketing, special populations, education, and Delaware State Parks friends organizations.  

(3) The Natural Areas Advisory Council shall annually appoint a member to represent the Council.  

(4) The remaining 4 members will be members of the General Assembly. One member from the majority party and 1 member from the minority party of the Delaware House of Representatives will be appointed by the Speaker of the House, and 1 member from the majority party and 1 member from the minority party of the Delaware State Senate will be appointed by the President Pro Tempore. The term of the General Assembly members serving shall be for 3 years.  

(d) No more than 6 of the members appointed by the Governor shall be affiliated with the same political party. Any person who declines to announce his or her political affiliation shall also be eligible for appointment as a member of the Council.  

(e) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred incident to their duties as members of the Council.  

(f) Failure to attend 3 consecutive regular meetings of the Council in the absence of mitigating circumstances shall be construed as a request by that member to resign from the Council and a replacement may thereafter be appointed in his or her stead.  

(g) A Chairperson and Vice Chair shall be chosen by the members of the Council from among its membership and shall serve in that capacity for a term of year. The Chairperson and Vice Chair shall be eligible for reelection.  

(h) Any replacement appointment to the Council to fill a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term shall serve out the remainder of the term.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8008;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  240 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 57&chapter=739);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, §  5 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume $\left\{=\right.$ 59&chapter=372);  67 Del. Laws, c. 430, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=67&chapter=430);  69 Del. Laws, c. 342, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 69&chapter=342);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=186);  77 Del. Laws, c. 236, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=77&chapter=236);  78 Del. Laws, c. 209, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=209);  83 Del. Laws, c. 310, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=83&chapter=310);  

# § 8010. Recreation Advisory Council [Repealed].  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8009;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, § (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=59&chapter=372);  repealed by 78 Del. Laws, c. 209, § 3, eff. Feb. 3, 2012. (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $\left\{=\right.$ 78&chapter=209);  

# § 8011. Water Infrastructure Advisory Council.  

(a) The Water Infrastructure Advisory Council serves in an advisory capacity to the Secretaries, as defined in this section.  

(b) Definitions. —  

As used in this section:  

(1) “Council” means the Water Infrastructure Advisory Council.  

(2) “Secretaries” means, collectively, the Secretaries of the Departments of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC), Agriculture (DDA), Health and Social Services (DHSS), Transportation (DelDOT), and Finance (DOF).  

(3) “Surface water management” means a strategy for the integration of drainage, flood control, and stormwater management through habitat protection, restoration, and other green infrastructure.  

(4) “Wastewater facility” or “wastewater infrastructure” means a property, easement, equipment, pipe, pump, plant, or appurtenance used in any way to collect, transport, store, handle, treat, or dispose of wastewater.  

(5) “Water supply facility,” “water supply infrastructure,” “drinking water infrastructure,” or “drinking water supply facility” means a property, equipment, pipe, or other conveyance, pump, tower, tank or other storage device, well, filter, or other appurtenance used to collect, treat, store, and distribute the best quality water available to address strategies to correct, present, or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards.  

(c) (1) Council is composed of 16 members appointed by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate.  

(2) The Governor shall appoint Council’s chair. The chair serves at the Governor’s pleasure. The Governor may remove the chair from Council entirely if the Governor removes the chair from the chair position.  

(3) A Council member other than the chair serves for a term of 3 years.  

(4) The Governor may appoint a Council member for a term of less than 3 years to ensure that terms expire on a staggered bases of no more than 4 expiring terms in a calendar year.  

(5) Council members must be comprised of at least 1 member who is a resident of New Castle County, 1 member who is a resident of Kent County, 1 member who is a resident of Sussex County, and 1 member who is a resident of the City of Wilmington.  

(6) Council members must represent interest and possess expertise in the areas of wastewater infrastructure, stormwater infrastructure, agricultural water use infrastructure, and drinking water infrastructure.  

(7) Council members may include representatives from local government, public health, agriculture, and financial management. Up to 3 members may represent nonprofit environmental organizations, 1 of whom may represent an environmental justice organization.  

(8) Council membership must be balanced so that no more than 9 voting members are from 1 political party. An individual who declines to announce a political party affiliation is eligible for appointment as a voting member.  

(9) The Governor shall appoint 3 of Council’s 16 members as nonvoting members who serve at the Governor’s pleasure: 1 member representing the water utilities, 1 member who is the district coordinator of 1 of the conservation districts, and 1 member representing the Farm Bureau. These members may provide annual recommendations to the Council relating to stormwater, drainage, flood protection, resource and conservation development projects, agricultural and conservation cost share, cover crops, conservation reserve enhancement, or tax ditches.  

(d) A Council member does not receive compensation but may be reimbursed for the member’s actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties.  

(e) Council’s duties and responsibilities include all of the following:  

(1) To evaluate, establish, recommend, and adopt all of the following:  

a. A long-term plan for the public funding of drinking water supply facility and wastewater facility infrastructure projects. The plan must cover a period of not less than 6 years, be updated and prioritized on an annual basis, and incorporated into DNREC’s and DHSS’s annual capital budget requests to the Governor. Council shall submit a copy of the adopted plan to the General Assembly and the Director and the Librarian of the Division of Legislative Services on or before November 15 of each year.  

b. Annual advisory recommendations related to wastewater infrastructure, stormwater infrastructure, and drinking water infrastructure addressing the elements required for inclusion in the strategic plan for clean water under § 8082(d) of this title. Council shall submit the recommendations to the Clean Water Trust Fund Oversight Committee on or before September 15 of each year.  

(2) a. To establish standards and procedures for persons to submit requests for funding the construction, repair, renovation, or expansion of water supply facilities and wastewater facilities. Using the standards and procedures that Council establishes, Council shall recommend specific grants or loans, or both, using funds authorized for the grants or loans by act of the General Assembly or funds that the Delaware State Clearinghouse Committee approves.  

b. To develop and recommend projects for the planning, construction, repair, renovation, or expansion of water supply facilities and wastewater facilities to be funded in whole or in part by the Delaware Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund, o another source of funding that the General Assembly authorizes.  

(3) a. To develop and periodically update a nonbinding comprehensive, statewide water supply facilities and wastewater facilities assessment to be presented in 3 sections, 1 for each county. Council may retain the services of necessary professionals and may enter into agreements in order to prepare the assessment.  

b. A county may, at its option, designate a county agency responsible for preparing the assessment for that county, but the assessment must be prepared in a uniform manner that the Council establishes. In the absence of the designation of a county agency to prepare an assessment, DNREC and DHSS are the lead agencies in coordinating preparation of the assessment.  

c. The assessment must include at least all of the following:  

1. A description of the status of existing water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

2. The current usage of existing water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

3. The adequacy of existing water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

4. Projected long range requirements for existing water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

5. The compatibility of existing land use plans with existing and long range requirements of water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

6. Recommendations for improvements to existing water supply facilities and wastewater facilities.  

(4) To recommend affordability standards for water supply facility and wastewater facility infrastructure projects. Each recommendation must reflect the goals of establishing fair rates that equitably distribute the costs of water supply facilities and wastewater facilities using public funds, based on usage, and relying on private firms to provide services if it is economical and in the public interest to do so.  

(5) To review and recommend To DNREC and DHSS the payment of the Council’s administrative and operating expenses.  

(6) To make funding recommendations to the Secretary of DNREC and Secretary of DHSS regarding drinking water infrastructure and wastewater infrastructure projects that are considered ready to proceed.  

) (1) A majority of the voting members must be present at a Council meeting in order to have a quorum and conduct official business. A vacant voting member position is not counted for quorum purposes.  

(2) Each motion, the plan under paragraph (e)(1)a. of this section, the assessment under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, or a recommendation for a loan or grant under paragraph (e)(2) of this section may be adopted only by a majority of the voting members. A vacant voting member position is not counted under this paragraph.  

(3) Council shall conduct a public meeting in each county prior to voting on the annual adoption of the water supply infrastructure and wastewater infrastructure plan under paragraph (e)(1)a. of this section.  

(4) Council is subject to the applicable provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act (Chapter 101 of this title).  

(g) Council shall work in concert with DNREC, DHSS, DelDOT, DDA, the Conservation Districts, the Delaware Geological Survey, the Public Service Commission, DOF, the Cabinet Committee on State Planning Issues, and any other appropriate department, agency, or committee focusing on statewide planning issues. Each agency shall provide reasonable staff time and resources as Council may require to fulfill Council’s duties and responsibilities. Council shall also work in concert with the Water Resources Agency of New Castle County and each appropriate agency that a county may designate. DNREC and DHSS are the lead agencies in coordinating support for Council.  

(h) (1) Council shall provide guidance and policy advice to the Governor and Secretaries and assist in the statewide effort to develop infrastructure programs related to water supply, drainage, stormwater management, and flood control. The guidance must include state-level direction to DNREC, DHSS, and local agencies and operating units in the development of standardized processes and procedures for identifying and prioritizing problems and development of watershed-based solutions.  

(2) Council shall provide guidance to the State in improving the quality of customer service and reviewing annual localized work plans.  

i) Council shall assist in defining areas of responsibility among state and local agencies, and coordinating implementation and operations.  

(j) Council shall assist the State in establishing a central response unit that DNREC coordinates to handle public calls relating to drainage, stormwater, and flood control.  

(k) Council shall assist in the statewide effort for the development of sustainable program funding options.  

Council shall assist in the development and evaluation of criteria for watershed-based plans for surface water manageme (2) Council shall assist in developing the priority needs for watershed plans.  

(3) Council shall assist in developing a strategy for long term planning for future growth relating to surface water management. This strategy may include options for private-public partnerships for infrastructure improvement and regional solutions.  

(m) The Council may adopt procedural rules to carry out its functions under this section.  

69 Del. Laws, c. 303, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=69&chapter=303);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 70&chapter=186);  75 Del. Laws, c. 219, §§  1-5 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume $\left\{=\right.$ 75&chapter=219);  75 Del. Laws, c. 353, §§  81(c)-(e) (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=75&chapter=353);  77 Del. Laws, c. 430, §  66 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 77&chapter=430);  79 Del. Laws, c. 48, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=79&chapter=48);  81 Del. Laws, c. 49, §  3 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=81&chapter=49);  81 Del. Laws, c. 374, § 21 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=81&chapter=374);  83 Del. Laws, c. 84, §§ 2, 3 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=83&chapter=84);  83 Del. Laws, c. 495, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=83&chapter=495);  84 Del. Laws, c. 233, § 60 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=84&chapter=233);  84 Del. Laws, c. 255, § 50 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=84&chapter=255);  

# § 8012. Division of Watershed Stewardship.  

The Division of Watershed Stewardship is established having powers, duties and functions as follows:  

(1) The Division of Watershed Stewardship shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all of the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Delaware Soil and Water Conservation Commission, pursuant to Chapters 39 and 41 of Title 7.  

(2) The administrative, ministerial, fiscal and clerical functions of the Boards of Ditch Commissioners, set forth in Chapter 41 of Title 7, shall be performed by the Division of Watershed Stewardship. Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, the membership, remuneration, organization, meetings, powers, duties and functions of the Boards of Ditch Commissioners shall remain as prescribed by Chapter 41 of Title 7.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8011;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  77 Del. Laws, c. 430, §  67 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=77&chapter=430);  

# § 8013. Council on Soil and Water Conservation [Repealed].  

Repealed by 77 Del. Laws, c. 341, § 1, effective July 2, 2010.  

# § 8014. Division of Air Quality, Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and Division of Water.  

The Division of Air Quality, Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and Division of Water is established having powers, duties and functions as follows:  

(1) The Division of Air Quality, Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and the Division of Water shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all of the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Delaware Water and Air Resources Commission (2) The administrative, ministerial, fiscal and clerical functions of this State as a member of the Delaware River Basin Commission, set forth in Chapter 65 of Title 7, shall be performed by Division of Air Quality, the Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and the Division of Water. Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, the membership, remuneration, organization, meetings, powers, duties and functions of the Delaware River Basin Commission shall remain as prescribed by Chapter 65 of Title 7.  

(3) The Division of Air Quality, the Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and the Division of Water shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all of the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Mosquito Control Commission and the State Highway Department pursuant to Chapter 19 of Title 16.  

(4) The Division of Air Quality, the Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances and the Division of Water shall have the power to perform and shall b responsible for the performance of all the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Department of Health and Social Services pursuant t § 122(3)d. of Title 16 only.  

(5) The Division of Air Quality and the Division of Waste and Hazardous Substances shall have primary authority under this section for matters concerning solid and hazardous waste, underground and aboveground storage tanks, boiler safety, hazardous materials emergency response, accident release prevention, emergency planning and community right to know, hazardous substance site investigation and restoration, and air resources of the State. The Division of Water shall have primary authority under this section for matters concerning surface and groundwater, underwater and wetland resources of the State.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8013;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §§  224-227 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 57&chapter=739);  58 Del. Laws, c. 52, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume $\left\{=\right.$ 58&chapter=52);  65 Del. Laws, c. 431, §§  3, 4 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=65&chapter=431);  77 Del. Laws, c. 430, §§  68, 69 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=77&chapter=430);  78 Del. Laws, c. 127, §§  2, 3 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=78&chapter=127);  

# § 8015. Council on Environmental Control [Repealed].  

Repealed by 77 Del. Laws, c. 341, § 2, effective July 2, 2010.  

# § 8016. Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(a) There is established the Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control.  

(b) The Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall be composed of the chairpersons of the councils to the respective divisions of the Department, as provided in this chapter, 1 of whom shall be designated by the Governor as Chairperson of the Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control, and the Chairperson shall serve, as such, at the pleasure of the Governor.  

(c) The terms of the members of the Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall coincide with the terms for which the members serve as chairpersons of their respective councils.  

(d) The Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall advise, recommend and refer to the Secretary of the Department matters which, in its opinion, are of Departmental concern and shall consider such other matters as may be referred to it by the Governor or the Secretary of the Department. The Council may also study, research, plan and advise the Secretary and the Governor on matters it deems appropriate to enable the Department to function in the best possible manner.  

(e) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incident to the duties as members of the Council.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8015;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §§  234, 235 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 57&chapter=739);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=186);  

# § 8016A. Community Involvement Advisory Council and Community Ombudsman.  

(a) There is established the Community Involvement Advisory Council.  

(b) The Community Involvement Advisory Council shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and shall consider such matters as the relationships and interactions between the Department and local communities throughout the State, communication and information flow between the Department and these communities, public participation in the decision-making processes of the Department, ensuring, to the extent practicable, that no community in the State is disparately affected by environmental impacts, matters related to addressing adverse environmental impacts on communities and other such matters as may be referred to it by the Governor or the Secretary. The Council may also study, research, plan and advise the Secretary on matters it deems appropriate to enable the Department to relate to and interact with communities in the best manner possible.  

(c) The Community Involvement Advisory Council shall be composed of 11 members who shall be appointed by the Governor as follows:  

(1) Four members shall be appointed for 3-year terms.   
(2) Four members shall be appointed for initial 2-year terms.   
(3) Three members shall be appointed for initial 1-year terms.   
(4) Thereafter, all new appointees shall serve for a term of 3 years.  

(d) Council membership shall include representatives from communities, community-based nonprofit organizations, environmental organizations, healthcare providers, local government, academic institutions and business/industry. Community representation shall include representatives of communities that potentially may be adversely impacted by environmental factors or conditions.  

(e) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incidental to their duties as members of the Council.  

(f) A Chairperson of the Council shall be chosen by the members of the Council from among its members and shall serve in that capacity for a term of year and shall be eligible for reelection.  

(g) Any replacement appointment to the Council to fill a vacancy prior to the expiration of a term shall be filled for the remainder of the term.  

(h) The Department shall establish a position of Community Ombudsperson to serve as a liaison between the Department and communities statewide. The Department may establish Community Assistance Providers as may be appropriated by the General Assembly. The Community Ombudsperson and Community Assistance Providers shall engage communities in identifying and understanding environmental issues and addressing or resolving environmental problems, advocate for communities, assist communities in obtaining information on environmental issues, and serve as a point of contact for the Department with communities and community organizations. The Secretary shall provide to the General Assembly annually a summary of the activities and an assessment of the effectiveness of the Community Ombudsperson program.  

73 Del. Laws, c. 117, §  9 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=73&chapter=117);  

# § 8017. Books; records; access; annual report.  

(a) The Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall have access to all books, records, reports and other documents relating to the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control unless otherwise prohibited by law.  

(b) The various councils of the divisions of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall have access to all books, records, reports and other documents relating to their respective divisions unless otherwise prohibited by law.  

(c) The Chairperson of the Governor’s Council on Natural Resources and Environmental Control and the chairmen of the councils of the divisions of this Department shall make an annual report of the activities of each of the councils to the Secretary of the Department, the Governor and the General Assembly and render such other reports as the Secretary, the Governor or the General Assembly may from time to time request or as may be required by law.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8016;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 70&chapter=186);  

# § 8017A. Delaware Council on Greenways and Trails [Repealed].  

68 Del. Laws, c. 377, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=68&chapter=377);  70 Del. Laws, c. 210, §  28 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=70&chapter=210);  70 Del. Laws, c. 290, §§  11, 41 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=70&chapter=290);  77 Del. Laws, c. 236, §§  1, 3, 4 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=77&chapter=236);  81 Del. Laws, c. 78, §  13 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 81&chapter=78);  repealed by 83 Del. Laws, c. 310, § 1, effective June 14, 2022. (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=83&chapter=310);  

# § 8018. Exemptions.  

The following positions set forth in this section shall be exempt from Chapter 59 of this title:  

(1) Secretary of Natural Resources and Environmental Control;   
(2) Director of Fish and Wildlife;   
(3) Director of Parks and Recreation;   
(4) Director of Watershed Stewardship;   
(5) Director of Air Quality;   
(6) Director of Waste and Hazardous Substances;   
(7) Director of Water;   
(8) [Repealed.] (9) Director of Energy and Climate.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8017;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, §  8 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 59&chapter=372);  65 Del. Laws, c. 431, §§  6, 7 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=65&chapter=431);  74 Del. Laws, c. 110, §  122 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=74&chapter=110);  77 Del. Laws, c. 430, §  70 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $=$ 77&chapter=430);  78 Del. Laws, c. 127, §§  4, 5 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?  

# § 8019. Assumption of functions of prior agencies.  

The Department, through appropriate divisions, subdivisions and offices, shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all of the powers, duties and functions vested by law in the Board of Game and Fish Commissioners, Delaware Commission of Shell Fisheries, State Park Commission, Delaware Soil and Water Conservation Commission and Delaware Water and Air Resources Commission immediately prior to the effective date of this chapter and which are not otherwise specifically transferred to the Department by this chapter, excepting only those powers, duties and functions expressly vested in or retained by any such commission.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8018;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, § (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=739);  59 Del. Laws, c. 372, §  9 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=59&chapter=372);  

# § 8020. Appeals.  

Any and all rights of appeal now existing by law with respect to any act or acts constituting the exercise of any function or functions transferred to the Department or to any division or subdivision thereof shall continue to exist with respect to such act or acts as hereafter performed by the Department or by the division, subdivision or office to which such function is transferred, and each such appeal shall be perfected in the manner heretofore provided by law.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8019;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  

# § 8021. Definitions and references in other laws.  

(a) All definitions and references to any commission, board, department, council or agency which appear in any other act or law shall, to the extent that the same are consistent with this chapter and in connection with a function transferred to the Department, be construed as referring and relating to the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control as created and established by this chapter.  

(b) All definitions and references to any director, commissioner, executive secretary, commission, board or council member or other similar person which appear in any other act or law shall, to the extent that same are consistent with this chapter and in connection with a function transferred to the Department, be construed as referring or relating to such person or persons and their powers, duties and functions as established and created by this chapter.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8020;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  

# § 8022. Annual report.  

The Secretary of the Department shall make an annual report of the Department’s operations to the Governor and the General Assembly, and render such other reports as the Governor or General Assembly may from time to time request or as may be required by law.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8021;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  

# § 8023. Misnomer of Department in donation.  

Any misnomer shall not defeat or annul any gift, grant, devise or bequest to the Department if it sufficiently appears by the will, conveyance or other writing that the party making the same intended to pass and convey thereby to the Department or to any commission, board, department, authority, council or agency, to which, by this chapter, the powers, duties and functions have been transferred to the Department, the estate or interest therein expressed or described.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8022;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302);  

# § 8024. Budgeting and financing.  

(a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the division directors, shall prepare a proposed budget for the operation of the Department to be submitted for the consideration of the Governor and the General Assembly. The Department shall be operated within the limitation of the annual appropriation and any other funds appropriated by the General Assembly.  

(b) Special funds may be used in accordance with approved programs, grants and appropriations.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8023;  57 Del. Laws, c. 302, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=302)  

# § 8025. Supremacy.  

All other laws or parts of laws now in effect inconsistent with this chapter are repealed, superseded, modified or amended so far as necessary to conform to, and give full force and effect to, this chapter.  

29 Del. C. 1953, §  8025;  57 Del. Laws, c. 739, §  237 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=57&chapter=739);  

# § 8026. Disposition of lost, abandoned or stolen property in custody of Department.  

(a) Whenever any personal property of any kind, except money, comes into the custody of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, and the person entitled to possession of said property cannot be located or fails to claim the property for a period of at least 30 days, the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control may dispose of the property by turning possession and custody of the property over to the Superintendent of the State Police for disposition pursuant to procedures set forth in § 8307 of Title 11.  

(b) Upon receipt of any personal property of any kind, except money, from the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, the Superintendent of the State Police may dispose of said personal property at public sale upon proof that said property was held by the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and/or the State Police for a period of not less than 1 year, and upon proof that the person entitled to possession of said property has failed to claim the property during the 1 year period the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and/or the State Police held the property.  

(c) After payment of expenses to the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control and the State Police for the amount of any storage or tow charges that are incurred by said Department and State Police during the period in which the property was in custody, and after the payment of all liens to which said property was subject in the order of their priority, the proceeds from the sale of said property shall be disposed of in accordance with the procedures of § 8307 of Title 11.  

(d) Employees of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall deliver custody of lost, abandoned or stolen money which comes into their possession in connection with the performance of their duties to the Secretary or such person the Secretary may designate and whenever any lost, abandoned or stolen money comes into the custody of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, the Secretary of said Department shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner thereof. If the owner of any stolen money cannot be located or fails to claim such stolen money within 1 year from the date that it came into the custody of said Department, such money shall become the property of the State, and shall be transferred to the General Fund of the State. If the owner of any lost or abandoned money cannot be located or fails to claim such lost or abandoned money within 1 year from the date that it came into the custody of said Department, such money shall become the property of the person who delivered custody of such money to the Department and shall be returned by the Secretary of the Department to such person as soon as is practicable after the 1- year period. However, if the person who delivered custody of such lost or abandoned money is an employee of said Department such money shall become the property of the State and shall be transferred to the General Fund of the State after the 1-year period.  

(e) This section shall apply to any personal property of any kind, which comes into the custody of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control as a result of either finding lost, abandoned or stolen property, or an investigation or enforcement action made pursuant to Title 7.  

63 Del. Laws, c. 299, §  2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=63&chapter=299);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=70&chapter=186);  

# § 8027. Notification.  

Except for land acquired by approval of the Open Space Council or approved through a bond and capital improvements act, land shall not be purchased by the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control without prior approval of the Cochairs of the Joint Legislative Committee on the Capital Improvement Program; provided, however, that the Department is not prohibited from conducting studies, surveys or other contractual arrangements that would normally precede land acquisition procedures. The Department is also required to provide cost estimates to the cochairs of the Joint Finance Committee and the Bond Bill Committee; these estimates will include costs to develop infrastructure, and the number of positions needed to maintain the land and the associated personnel costs.  

73 Del. Laws, c. 310, §  20 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=73&chapter=310);  

# § 8028. Division of boiler safety [Repealed].  

74 Del. Laws, c. 110, §  123 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $\mathrel{\mathop:}$ 74&chapter=110);  70 Del. Laws, c. 186, §  1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $^{*=}$ 70&chapter=186);  repealed by 78 Del. Laws, c. 127, § 6, eff. July 13, 2011. (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=127);  

# § 8029. Council on boiler safety [Repealed].  

74 Del. Laws, c. 110, §  124 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume $:=$ 74&chapter=110);  repealed by 78 Del. Laws, c. 127, § 6, eff. July 13, 2011.   
(https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=127);  

# § 8030. Energy Efficiency Investment Fund.  

(a) The Division of Climate, Coastal and Energy shall have the power to perform and shall be responsible for the performance of all the powers, duties and functions heretofore vested in the Delaware Energy Office, also referred to as the “Energy Office,” “State Energy Office,” “DEO” and “State Energy Coordinator,” pursuant to: Chapter 76 of Title 16; Chapters 1, 10 and 15 of Title 26; this chapter; and Chapter 64 of this title.  

(b) The Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control shall manage the Energy Efficiency Investment Fund. The Fund shall be used to incentivize investments in energy efficiency by consumers or users of gas or electricity whose purchase of those commodities from a distributor is subject to the public utility tax on gas or electricity imposed by Chapter 55 of Title 30. The Department shall support implementation of projects that reduce the use of gas, electricity, or other sources through the issuance of competitive grants, low-interest loans, or other financing support from the Fund. The Department shall establish the contents and deadline for applications for financing from the Fund and shall give preference to those applications proposing projects that are anticipated to produce the greatest reduction in energy consumption per Fund dollar invested, improve environmental performance, spur capital construction and facility modernization, encourage job retention and creation, and are likely to be substantially complete no later than 1 year following the issuance of financing from the Fund. In no event shall the Fund provide grant funding for more than $60\%$ of the costs of any proposed project or support projects already receiving support from the Green Energy Fund under this chapter or the Strategic Fund under subchapter II of Chapter 87A of this title. The Fund shall be administered in consultation with the Sustainable Energy Utility and the Department. The Department shall make an annual report on the use of the Energy Efficiency Investment Fund and the value of energy savings resulting therefrom to the Governor’s Energy Advisory Council and the General Assembly not later than August 30 of each year after 2011. The Department shall retain no more than 4 percent of the Fund for expenses to administer this section. All terms used herein that are defined in Chapter 55 of Title 30 shall have the same definition used in that chapter.  

78 Del. Laws, c. 75, §  5 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=75);  78 Del. Laws, c. 290, §  232 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=78&chapter=290);  81 Del. Laws, c. 49, §  3 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=81&chapter=49);  81 Del. Laws, c. 374, § 22 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=81&chapter=374);  84 Del. Laws, c. 107, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=84&chapter=107);  84 Del. Laws, c. 141, § 2 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws? volume=84&chapter=141);  

# 31. Prohibition of collecting natural resource data without the informed written consent of the property owne  

(a) The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meaning ascribed in this subsection:  

(1) “Department” means the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.   
(2) “Natural resource data” means all the information collected from private property within the State, that was collected by physically being present on   
private property, that relates to or concerns: a. The presence of rare or endangered species. b. The presence and conditions of historic or cultural resources.  

(b) From July 11, 2018, forward, the Department shall not enter physically onto private property to collect Natural Resource Data without the informed written consent of the property owner. The informed written consent must contain the method of collection, date of collection, and how the information will be shared.  

81 Del. Laws, c. 322, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=81&chapter=322)  

# § 8032. Procedures for public notice of permit applications.  

(a) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the following minimum requirements must be observed for the issuance of any permit by the Department where public notice is required:  

(1) The notice must include instructions for electronic submission of public comments or requests for hearing. (2) The permit application to which the notice applies must be available electronically. The notice must contain a link or web address where instructions for accessing the full application are available. The Department may provide instructions for nonelectronic review of application attachments that are too voluminous to post electronically. (3) A copy of the notice shall be posted on the Department’s website in addition to whatever other means of delivery is required for the notice. (4) The Department shall send a copy of the notice by e-mail to members of the General Assembly in whose district the permit would issue. (b) This section applies to applications for permit renewals. (c) This section does not apply to applications for permit extensions. el. Laws, c. 103, § 1 (https://legis.delaware.gov/SessionLaws?volume=84&chapter=103);  

Delaware General Assembly (http://legis.delaware.gov/)   
Judicial (http://courts.delaware.gov/)   
Executive (http://delaware.gov)   
Contact (http://delaware.gov/help/degov-contact.shtml)   
Twitter (https://twitter.com/delaware_gov/)   
Help (../../../help/default.html )  