# STEAM TO ELECTRIC CONVERSION INCENTIVE PROGRAM APPLICATION FORM  

Please review the complete program application prior to completing this form, at www.denvergov.org/sustainability.  

Name of Applicant Is the applicant the owner of the building being converted from steam to electricity? Yes ___   No  

2. Address of Building:  

3. Is this building part of the Xcel Energy Steam District?   Yes ___   No  

If yes, please attach a recent Xcel bill for the building.  

4. Applicants must obtain technical expertise and quotes to determine the best method for conversion from steam to electric.  Applicants must attach a quote detailing the costs to convert the building from steam to electricity and a quote detailing the costs to convert the building from steam to natural gas. Costs incurred during this preliminary phase are excluded from the incentive payment.  

Electric Quote must contain:  

Equipment costs  Labor costs Estimate from Xcel Energy to provide additional electric service, and any electric upgrades that must take place in the building. Estimated timeline to complete project  

Gas quote must contain:  

 Equipment costs   
 Labor costs   
 Estimate from Xcel Energy to provide new or extend existing gas service Estimated timeline to complete project  

Applicants are encouraged to include any other technical documentation to aid the City in reviewing the application, such as engineering blueprints or schematic design documents.  

5. Applicants must be able to complete the conversion within a 24-month period commencing upon contract execution.  Please explain the proposed timeline during which the conversion will take place.  

6. Please provide the following budget with your application:  

Total  costs  (labor  and  equipment)  to  convert building from steam to electric  

Total costs (labor and equipment) to convert building from steam to natural gas   
 Cost difference between the two identifying the total amount the applicant is requesting for financial support.   
 Confirmation that all prices quoted shall be firm and fixed for the defined SOW and timeline.  

Note:  The City reserves the right to negotiate the total contract amount, and award all, some or none of the requested award.  The City is not liable for any costs or expenses arising out of preparation of this application and if selected, may not include any of these costs or expenses as part of its fee, rates, or charges for performing work under the Contract.  

7. Please include the following data to allow the City to make an assessment of your project’s greenhouse gas reduction over the lifetime of the system:  

 Rated lifetime of your proposed electric system  The annual estimated kWh consumption of your proposed electric system The annual estimated therm consumption of your gas alternative system  

8. Please describe the non-energy benefits that converting your building from steam to electricity will bring to its occupants.  For example, will the electrical space and water heating provide enhanced thermal controls and/or greater thermal comfort?  Will the all-electric system  improve reliability, occupant health and safety, and/or reduce noise?  

9. CASR encourages applicants to engage or utilize small, minority, and woman-owned businesses and, where independent contractors are required, to utilize individuals who identify as people of color, indigenous people, LGBTQ+, people with disabilities, and people whose household income is below the area median1. CASR also encourages applicants and their project teams to demonstrate how they, as applicable, provide support for high road labor standards such as utilizing a skilled and trained workforce from certification or apprenticeship programs; provide benefits such as health care, retirement, and wage standards; use best value/responsible contracting; and have regional targeted and local hire requirements.  

Please provide information regarding your intended utilization or engagement of the businesses, independent contractors, or practices described above.  

10. Does your building house or include tenants that serve under-resourced communities or individuals, specifically, people living at or below $60\%$ of Denver’s Area Median Income, and/or who identify as people of color, Indigenous people, people who identify as LGBTQ $^+$ , former foster care youth, or people with justice-involved histories? If yes, please describe.  

11. If  the  building  use  includes  affordable  housing,  please  provide  any  documentation  on  how electrification impacts your net operating income and debt service coverage ratio, if any.  