三  

# System Installation  

HMLP offers a rebate in the form of a check to customers who install and own a photovoltaic system at their home or business in Hingham. The amount of the rebate will vary according to the capacity of the photovoltaic system (AC). There is acapof $\$6,000$ per account lifetime. The rebate is calculated at $\$0.60/W$ xthe rated output of the system (AC) upto10kw.  

For example, an HMLP customer who installs a photovoltaic system at their home in Hingham and whose system has a rated output of 2.5kW (AC) will receive a rebate check for $\$1,500$ . If that same customer installed a system with a rated output of 1okW (AC), they would receive a rebate check for $\$6,000$ . If theyinstalled a system with a rated output of 5kW (AC) they will receive a rebate check for $\$3,000$  

If you are considering a battery installation with your solar system, please see our Connected Homes program which includes a monthly credit for qualified batteries to participate in demand response! You can enroll your battery to help HMLP better manage its electric load, reduce costs, and keep rates low.  

# Federal Tax Credit  

If you're a federal taxpayer, you may benefit from the 25D Residential Clean Energy Property Credit when you purchase and install solar panels on your home. This program covers $30\%$ of the qualifying costs, making it more affordable to go solar.  

The 25D tax credit also applies to other clean energy upgrades, including:  

· Geothermal heat pumps  

·Solar water heaters · Battery storage equipment  

# Interested in Going Solar?  

HMLP has partnered with EnergySage, an online solar marketplace, to provide customers with solar information and get free quotes from installers. Hingham customers can utilize all of EnergySage's resources at no-cost including their incentive calculators, quote comparison tools, and energy advisors.  

# LET'S GO  

# For Installers: Meter Labels  

Please note that HMLP requires certain labels for the meters. Correct placards must be present on the main house meter and labeling for the solar meter. Please ensure that two red placards, one saying "HMLP SOLAR METER" and one saying "HMLP BI-DIRECTIONAL METER" are included in the label set and on the system.  

# "HMLPSOLARMETER"  

"HMLP BI-DIRECTIONAL METER"  

'Follow 'Follow Follow Follow  