# General Information  

As part of your local Municipal Utility's commitment to maintaining low cost, reliable electric service, your local Municipal Utility is pleased to offer the Connected Homes Program ("Program"). As a member of the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company ("MMWEC"), your local Municipal Utility is able to participate in the Program, which is administered through MMWEC's NextZero program to allow active management of Wi-Fi enabled residential devices for customers wishing to participate in a residential demand reduction program. The Program is being offered to your local Municipal Utility's customers as part of MMWEC's suite of energy efficiency opportunities administered through NextZero. MMWEC is the authorized agent of your local Municipal Utility with respect to the Program.  

The Program uses a cloud-based platform provided by Virtual Peaker, Inc. ("Virtual Peaker") to exercise load control and deliver capacity and RNS savings. The Program offers credits to customers in exchange for temporarily allowing the utility the ability to adjust thermostats, hot water heaters, EV chargers, home batteries, and other eligible devices in the customer's home to help minimize energy usage at peak times of the month. Peak energy usage (typically occurring between 5:00-9:00 p.m.) can account for more than $40\%$ of Massachusetts electric customer's annual electricity costs.  

Customers enrolling one or more devices in the Program and opting to participate during a peak day will be given credits against their utility bills $[\wedge_{\mathbf{1}}]$ . The following is a current representative list of credit amounts. Please note that the exact list of eligible devices and monthly credits may vary depending on Municipal Utility and is subject to change. Please check your Municipal Utility’s current list at https://nextzero.org/ by selecting your town and then selecting Connected Homes.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>EligibleDevices</td><td>Credit per Month</td></tr><tr><td>Batteries (>=10 KWH)</td><td>$30</td></tr><tr><td>ElectricVehicle Chargers</td><td>$10</td></tr><tr><td>Mini-Split Heat Pump Controllers (per condenser)|$5</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Thermostats</td><td>$5</td></tr><tr><td>WaterHeaters</td><td>$5</td></tr></table></body></html>  

By enrolling in the Program and allowing MMWEC to curtail energy usage on your connected devices, you are helping your local Municipal Utility maintain a reliable power distribution system for you and your neighbors and helping to reduce power costs. MMWEC is authorized to change incentive levels of the program at any point without reauthorization of Terms and Conditions. MMWEC will notify Connected Homes enrolled customers of contract changes via email.  

Consent to Participate in Program ("Consent")  

By enrolling in the Connected Homes Program (the “Program”), the participating customer (the "Customer") consents to participate in and agrees to abide by the Program Terms set forth below, as they may be amended from time to time. As agent of and provider for Energy & Demand Services to the local municipal utility that provides service to the Customer ("Municipal Utility"), the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company ("MMWEC") has program specialists available to speak with the Customer regarding program specifics. If the Customer has any questions or concerns regarding the Program or processing of these home chargers, please email help@nextzero.org. An energy efficiency specialist or program administrator would be happy to assist.  

# Program Terms  

1. Eligibility and Credits: The Customer must be on a residential rate in order to participate in the Program. Commercial rate customers are not allowed to participate unless a waiver is granted by the Municipal Utility. The Customer must be owner/resident of the address provided in the enrollment process. Townhouse, apartment, and other congregate living facilities in which the resident of the dwelling is not the electric account holder may participate under special terms only (in which the dwelling unit resident is allowed to opt into events). Only compatible devices as listed on www.nextzero.org shall be allowed to participate in the Program.  

To qualify for the credit, the device must be enrolled in the Program and the Customer must not opt out of allowing the device to participate in a "Peak Event" (defined in Section 5 below) [^2]. Peak days shall be as determined by Independent System Operator-New England ("ISONE") and the local transmission provider. MMWEC, acting as agent for the Municipal Utility, may call up to 170 hours[^3] of Peak Events in the aggregate per calendar year. On average, this is approximately five to six Peak Events per month, though the actual number of Peak Events may vary. To qualify for a credit, the Customer must have an eligible device actively participating during the Peak Event (as determined following the end of the month)[^4]. No credit shall be given for participation on non-peak days. Neither the Municipal Utility nor MMWEC bears any responsibility for Customer Wi-Fi or network issues that prevent device participation in the Program. The Municipal Utility has the sole authority and absolute discretion over who has and has not met the criteria for credits.  

If the Customer enrolls one or more eligible devices in the Program and opts to participate during a Peak Event, the Customer shall be issued credits. The amount of each credit depends on the type of eligible device is and subject to change. Each Municipal Utility’s current list of credit amounts can be found on the Program’s website, https://nextzero.org/. Credits shall be issued on a quarterly basis[^5].  

No credits shall be granted to the Customer unless these eligibility and participation requirements have been satisfied, as determined by the Municipal Utility $\boxed{\sim6}$ .  

2. Opt Out. The Customer will be notified prior to each Peak Event and will have the ability to opt out of each Peak Event. If the Customer opts out of a Peak Event during a month, the Customer will not receive a credit for that month 1. The definition of an “opt out” depends on device type, but in general, an “opt out” means one or more of the following:  

• WiFi Smart Thermostats, Smart Water Heaters, certain EV models and Home Batteries: If the Customer selects “opt-out” on the email or text notifications of event being called, changes the temperature or charging of the device during the event, does not have device connected to Wi-Fi, and/or unplugs the device during the Peak Event.   
• Certain EV Models: If the Customer selects “opt-out” on the email or text notification of the event being called, does not have the EV plugged in during the Peak Event, unplugs and plugs back in EV during the Peak Event, is within the geo-fenced area near their home during the Peak Event, and/or the vehicle is not charged to the minimum threshold state during the Peak Event.  

3. Access to Device(s): To participate, the Customer must allow MMWEC, acting as agent for the Municipal Utility, access to control the Customer’s eligible device(s). This requires the Customer to have (i) a working and reliable internet connection and Wi-Fi network (if device requires Wi-Fi) and other related equipment in the Customer’s home that is positioned to communicate reliably; (ii) an internet service provider ("ISP"); (iii) other system elements and device location information that may be specified as required by MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility or the manufacturer of any required equipment (i.e. smart phone apps). The Customer is responsible for all fees charged by the ISP in connection with participation in the Program.  

The Customer’s participation in the Program will be terminated if MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, is unable to communicate with or access the Customer’s eligible device(s) and communication or access is not restored within 30 days after MMWEC is alerted of failed connectivity and customer receives notice from MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility. If communication or access is restored at a future date, the Customer may opt back in to the Program.  

4. Device System Performance: If the device system fails to perform, the customer will have 30 days after MMWEC has been alerted to resolve the issue and to have MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, test and verify that performance has been restored. If performance is not restored within 30 days after MMWEC has been alerted to resolve the issue, MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, may elect to terminate the Customer’s participation in the Program.  

5. Control of Device(s): The Customer hereby acknowledges that MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, will control the device system in the Customer’s home and agrees that MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, may access and control the Customer’s eligible device(s) during Peak Events and other periods where a reduction of system wide energy demand will deliver improved reliability for the Municipal Utility's system. A "Peak Event" is defined as a period of time in which MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, will make necessary changes to the Customer’s eligible device(s) to help minimize system wide energy usage. Changes are based on device type but in general are the following:  

• Wi-Fi Smart Thermostats: Adjust AC temperature up or down 2-3 degrees to temporarily reduce AC usage.   
• Turn down water heater set points to reduce energy usage in making domestic hot water.   
• Block EVs from charging, or allow EVs to charge at a reduced power level 0 rate (in lieu of standard 32A level 2 rate).   
• Utilize home batteries to supply load to the Customer's home or inject power into the utility system.   
• Peak Events are anticipated to occur no more than 5 times per month for an average of 3 to 4 hours at a time. The Customer will be sent notification of a Peak Event, via a smartphone app or other electronic method. If possible, notification of a Peak Event will be provided at least 4 hours in advance. Customer may elect to opt out of the Peak Event. If Customer opts out, no credit will be given. o Google Nest customers only need to remain enrolled through the end of the year in order to receive the credit.  

6. Data Access & Use: The Customer hereby consents to access to and use of the Customer's name and address and energy usage and consumption data by MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, and by the platform provider, Virtual Peaker. By enrolling in the Program, the Customer consents to this information being accessed by and provided to MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, and Virtual Peaker. This information will be used to assist in programming, reporting, monitoring, and controlling the device system and to fulfill the reporting requirements of the Department of Energy Resources (“DOER”). MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, retains all rights to all the energy and consumption data and may disclose such data to DOER.  

7. Acknowledgment of Customer: The Customer hereby grants MMWEC, as the agent for the Municipal Utility, the authority to control the device system associated with the Program that is installed in the Customer’s home. The Customer hereby acknowledges that the Customer remains responsible for maintenance, repair and replacement of the Customer’s eligible devices and device system.  

8. Enrollment & Term: Participation in the Program shall commence upon the Customer’s enrollment and shall continue for a period of ten years, or when the program is discontinued by your MLP, whichever is longer. After said ten-year period, the Customer’s participation in the Program shall automatically renew for additional, successive one-year periods until terminated by either MMWEC or the Customer. Either MMWEC, as agent for the Municipal Utility, or the Customer may terminate participation in the Program by providing the other party 30 days' advance written notice of termination.  

9. Liability: The Customer hereby releases the Municipal Utility and MMWEC from all liability for any damages whatsoever to persons or property resulting from or arising out of the  

Program or any use, repair, delay in repairing, replacement of, modification to, unavailability of, or status of eligible devices or the device system. Neither the Municipal Utility nor MMWEC shall be responsible for any costs related to the repair, maintenance or replacement of the Customer’s eligible devices or the device system. If replacement of the Customer’s eligible device(s) or device system is necessary, the Customer must notify the Municipal Utility or MMWEC.  

10. Notices: The Customer must send any notice required or permitted under this Consent to help@nextzero.org. MMWEC or the Municipal Utility may send any notice required or permitted under this Consent to the email address associated with the Customer’s account.  

11. Governing Law: The Program, including the Consent and Program Terms, shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  

12. Amendments: MMWEC may amend these Program Terms by providing written notice of the amendment to the Customer at least 60 days prior to the date on which the amendments become effective. The Customer may terminate the Customer’s participation in the Program as set forth in Section 8 above. The Customer’s continued participation in the Program after the effective date of the amendments shall be deemed to be the Customer’s acceptance of such amendments.  

[^1]: Terms regarding opt out necessity to receive incentive do not apply to Google Nest device customers.  

[^2]: Terms regarding opt out necessity to receive incentive do not apply to Google Nest device customers.  

[^3]: Google Nest device customers are restricted per season to 80 peak event hours for the summer season, with 3600 minutes of precondition dispatch (60 hours) and 4800 minutes of event dispatch (80 hours).  

[^4]: Terms regarding opt out necessity to receive incentive do not apply to Google Nest device customers.  

[^5]: Terms regarding opt out necessity to receive incentive do not apply to Google Nest device customers.  

[^6]: Terms regarding opt out necessity to receive incentive do not apply to Google Nest device customers.  