# North Carolina - Home Efficiency Rebate (HER) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2025-01-16 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-16 19:03:54 
 ***state** : North Carolina 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2025-01-16 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $104.9 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Single-Family Homes: Up to $16,000 or 100% of project cost, depending on
income level and modeled energy savings  
Multi-family Homes: Up to $16,000 or 100% of cost, and up to $400,000 per
building, depending on income level and modeled energy savings

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Must use a program approved contractor

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Comprehensive Measures/Whole Building 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Low Income Residential, Residential, Low Income Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 16000.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 **_Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home Efficiency
Rebates (HER) Program. The IRA established the main parameters for this
program, but allowed the states to customize the program to meet their state-
specific needs. The program is designed to provide rebates for whole-home
energy improvements. Actual rebate amounts are determined by the level of
modeled or measured energy savings and the income level of the applicant. See
summary below and program website for complete details._**

North Carolina launched its HER program in January 2025. As a first step,
interested residents of North Carolina need to [confirm their income
eligibility](https://energync.goeverblue.com/forms/prequalification-step-1)
for the program. Qualified participants can then [schedule a free home energy
assessment](https://energync.goeverblue.com/forms/prequalification-step-1).
Based on the assessment, rebates are available for improvements that increase
the overall energy efficiency of a home, such as insulation, air sealing, and
upgrading heating and cooling systems. The exact incentive amount depends on
whether the building is single-family or multi-family, income level, and the
modeled energy savings from the project.

 
 