# Duke Energy Florida Off-Peak Charging Credit Terms and Conditions  

Customer certifies that the customer name, “Customer,” and address, “Property,” provided on the online form is true and correct and agrees to the Duke Energy Florida, LLC (“Duke Energy”) Residential Electric Vehicle Off-Peak Credit Program (“Program”) terms and conditions set forth herein (the “Agreement”).  

# A. Eligibility and Requirements  

1. Customer is a Duke Energy customer. The Program is open to all residential customers on RS-1, RSL1, RSL-2, or FB-1 rates.  

2. Customer must provide proof of electric vehicle ownership or operation, via a copy of the vehicle registration.  

3. Requires installation of a Level 2 EVSE, customer choice of EVSE hardware (“Equipment”).  

4. Customer shall submit a photograph satisfactory to Duke Energy via email, of the vehicle display indicating the applicable charging timer set to Off-Peak Period (defined below) within 14 days of Customer’s official enrollment in the Program.  

5. Customer will be removed from program if they no longer own or operate an EV. Accounts will be flagged for review if no residential EV charging is detected for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.  

6. Participation in the Program is in Duke Energy’s sole discretion. Duke Energy reserves the right to cancel or modify the Program or terminate Customer ’s participation in the Program at any time in its sole discretion.  

7. Maximum two (2) electric vehicles per account.  

8. Customer shall allow access to the electric vehicle telematics, and/or meter data for load disaggregation.  Duke Energy has sole discretion which method to utilize, to ensure participant’s charging compliance and associated data collection in connection with the Program.  

# B. General Terms  

1. Incentive: Customer is eligible for the following Program incentive:  

a. “Participation Credit,” which shall be a credit of $\$7.50$ per month for every month Customer observes Off-Peak Periods (defined below).  

2. Off-Peak Periods: To receive the Participation Credit, Customer shall observe the off-peak periods determined by Duke Energy by charging during off-peak periods and not charging during on-peak periods (“Off-Peak Periods”).  

a. Off-Peak Periods are as set forth below:  

1. Monday – Friday (non-holidays), 10am-6pm, 11pm-5am and weekends (all hours)  

2. Holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Good Friday, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.  

3. All non-Off-Peak Periods shall be deemed “On-Peak Periods”.  

b. If Customer charges during Off-Peak Periods, Customer will be considered compliant with the Program and shall be eligible to receive the monthly Participation Control Credit. Customer may opt out of Off- Peak Period charging up to two (2) times per month by charging during an OnPeak Period. If Customer opts out more than two (2) times in a month, Customer will not be eligible to receive that month’s portion of the Participation Credit.  

c. An “opt out charging event” for purposes of this Agreement shall mean charging outside of OffPeak periods for 30 minutes or more at 3kW capacity or above.  

3. Liability: Duke Energy’s sole liability and responsibility in connection with the Program shall be strictly limited to the making of certain incentive payments for Customer’s participation in the Program. Duke Energy disclaims any and all liability, loss or damage that may arise as a result of the Customer ’s participation in the Program. Customer is solely responsible for ensuring all products are installed to the manufacturer’s specification, and Duke Energy shall in no way be liable or responsible for any Equipment installed, services performed, or information presented by any third party. Duke Energy is not responsible for any taxes that Customer may incur as a result of its participation in the Program.  

4. Data: Customer shall permit Duke Energy to access and collect data with respect to vehicle charging, vehicle usage and technical performance of the vehicle. All rights, title and interest in the data and information collected from the Equipment shall vest in Duke Energy. Accordingly, Duke Energy shall have the right to use, copy, distribute and create derivative works from such data and information as necessary or helpful to evaluate electric vehicles and electric vehicle support equipment and system infrastructure for purposes related to its services.  

5. Transferability and Termination: Customer’s participation in the Program is not transferable or assignable to another party. If Customer transfers their electric service to a different location within the Duke Energy service territory, Customer shall notify Duke Energy in writing of such transfer, and Customer’s enrollment in the Program shall be transferred to the new service location upon reinstallation of Equipment. Customer’s participation in the Program shall terminate if the Customer: (i) discontinues electric service and relocates outside the Duke Energy service territory, or (ii) no longer complies with the requirements of Section B.4 above  

6. Governing Law: This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida without reference to its conflict of laws principles.  

By submitting and signing this Agreement, Customer agrees to the foregoing terms and conditions.  