# North Carolina - Home Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program 
 ***created_at*** : 2025-01-16 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-16 19:02:06 
 ***state** : North Carolina 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Rebate Program 
 ***sector*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***start date*** : 2025-01-16 05:00:00 
 ***administrator*** : North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality 
 ***funding Source*** : Inflation Reduction Act 
 ***budget*** : $104.3 million 
 ***Incentive Amount*** : Incentive amount depends on household size and income level.  
  
Electric heat pumps: Up to $8,000  
Electrical panel: Up to $4,000  
Electrical wiring: Up to $2,500  
Electric heat pump water heater: Up to $1,750  
Insulation, mechanical ventilation products and air sealing: Up to $1,600  
Heat pump dryer or combo washer/dryer: Up to $840  
Electric range or cooktop: Up to $840  

 
 ***Equipment Requirements*** : Appliances must be Energy Star certified

 
 ***Installation Requirements*** : Must use a program approved contractor

 
 ## incentive data : 
 ***Technologies*** : Building Insulation, Duct/Air sealing 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1600.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Water Heaters 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 1750.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Heat pumps 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 8000.0 $ 
 
 ***Technologies*** : Clothes Washers 
 ***Sectors*** : Residential, Multifamily Residential, Low Income Residential 
 ***Parameters***: The Incentive offers maximum of 840.0 $ 
 
 ## Summary : 
 _**Note: The Federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created the Home
Electrification and Appliance Rebate (HEAR) Program. The IRA established the
main parameters for this program, but allowed the states to customize the
program to meet their state-specific needs. The program is designed to award
rebates for purchase of qualifying home electrification equipment and
appliances. Residents earning less than 80% of the Area Median Income
([AMI](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)) can receive the full
rebate amount, and residents earning between 80% and 150% AMI can receive a
partial rebate. See summary below and program website for complete details.
**_

North Carolina launched its HEAR program in January 2025. Owners and renters
of single- or multi-family homes, may qualify. As a first step, interested
residents of North Carolina need to [confirm their income
eligibility](https://energync.goeverblue.com/forms/prequalification-step-1)
for the program. Qualified participants can use the [registered contractor
finder](https://energync.goeverblue.com/find_professional), filter for the
products they want to install, and get quotes. Rebates are available for the
following equipment types:

  * Up to $8,000 for an ENERGY STAR® certified electric heat pump.
  * Up to $4,000 for an electrical panel.
  * Up to $2,500 for electrical wiring.
  * Up to $1,750 for an ENERGY STAR certified electric heat pump water heater.
  * Up to $1,600 for ENERGY STAR certified insulation, mechanical ventilation products and air sealing.
  * Up to $840 for an ENERGY STAR certified heat pump dryer or combo washer/dryer.
  * Up to $840 for an ENERGY STAR certified electric range or cooktop.

  

See program website for complete details.

 
 