# Energy Efficiency Revolving Loan Fund 
 ***created_at*** : 2025-01-14 00:00:00 
 ***updated_at*** : 2025-01-14 21:04:35 
 ***state** : Illinois 
 **implementing sector***: State 
 ***program category*** : Financial Incentive 
 ***program type*** : Loan Program 
 ***sector*** : Commercial, Local Government, Nonprofit, Schools, Multifamily Residential 
 ***administrator*** : Illinois Finance Authority & Climate Bank 
 ***funding Source*** : Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) 
 ***Maximum Loan*** : $1,000,000

 
 ***Loan Term*** : Up to 24 months

 
 ***Interest Rate*** : Below market

 
 ## Summary : 
 The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (“IEPA”) Office of Energy, in
partnership with the Illinois Finance Authority & Climate Bank (“IFA”), is
excited to announce the launch of a new Energy Efficiency Revolving Loan Fund
(“EE RLF”) Capitalization Grant Program made possible by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law (“BIL”) and the U.S. Department of Energy (“US DOE”). This
program aims to support and accelerate energy efficiency projects statewide,
with a special focus on assisting nonprofits, public entities, and underserved
communities.

The EE RLF will introduce a specialized Bridge Loan to help nonprofits and
public entities finance building electrification, energy storage, and
distributed generation projects. Federal tax credits have traditionally been
nonrefundable, meaning that if their tax credits exceed the amount owed in
taxes, they would not get refunded. This poses a problem for nonprofits and
local governments because they do not pay taxes and, subsequently, could not
receive these incentives. Under the Inflation Reduction Act (“IRA”), these
groups are now eligible for direct payments for their clean energy projects
instead of tax credits. However, the delay in receiving these payments can
hinder project implementation. We have seen similar problems in Illinois with
the receipt of Illinois Solar for All incentives upon project completion and a
lack of up-front funding.

To minimize this gap, IFA’s Bridge Loans will offer low-interest, short-term
financing up to $1,000,000. Loans are available for up to 24 months, with no
monthly payments required until receipt of direct pay tax credits from the
U.S. Treasury and/or receipt of Solar for All incentives from the Illinois
Power Agency. In select cases, the Authority will also consider participating
with a Project Lender to finance project costs not covered by IRA Tax Credits
and IL Solar for All incentives. These financing solutions ensure that
nonprofit and public entities can participate fully in the clean energy
transition.

 
 