# Illinois Energy Efficiency Revolving Loan Fund Energy Assessment Requirements  

# What Is The Revolving Loan Fund?  

The Illinois Energy Efficiency Revolving Loan Fund is a new mechanism to help Illinois' public sector and non-profit building owners, particularly those serving equity eligible communities, finance clean energy upgrades. The fund will create Direct Pay Bridge Loans for public sector and nonprofit building owners who complete qualifying clean energy projects. Building owners can use these loans to bridge the gap between project installation and receiving federal direct pay tax credits.  

# What Kind Of Projects Qualify For Direct Pay Bridge Loans?  

The loans can be used for energy efficiency assessments and upgrades resulting from an energy assessment that meets certain criteria. Health and safety improvements and solar energy systems can also be eligible for the loans if they are recommended by the energy assessment. Please note that some energy assessments may not meet the criteria for a loan.  

# Energy Assessment Software Requirements.  

Commercial energy audits financed through the EE RLF Program must estimate the total energy and cost savings potential for the facility if all recommended upgrades and retrofits are implemented, using software approved by DOE. DOE recommends using the Audit Template software for audits of commercial and multifamily buildings to accomplish ASHRAE Level II Audits. Software must use the standard BuildingSync format for conveying data, which is used by multiple energy audit software tools. For information on current adopters of BuildingSync, please see   
https://buildingdata.energy.gov/#/building-sync/collaborators.  

Residential energy audits financed through the EE RLF Program must use the evaluation criteria as the Home Performance Assessment used in the Energy Star program and provide a Home Energy Score, or equivalent score, for the residential building by using DOE’s Home Energy Score Tool, or an equivalent scoring tool. DOE recommends using the Home Energy Score Tool for audits of residential buildings, not including multifamily buildings. Residential energy auditors may enter data into the Home Energy Scoring Tool directly to comply with this requirement or may use a software tool that is connected to the Home Energy Scoring Tool through an Application Programming Interface (API). For more information on API-compliant software providers, please refer to Partner Resources | Better Buildings Initiative.  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Commercial</td><td></td><td>Other Required Elements of Qualifying EnergyEfficiency Auditsand Upgrades</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Energy Audits</td><td>REQUIRED</td><td>· Determine the overall consumption of energy of the facility. Identify and recommend lifecycle cost-effective opportunities to reduce the energy consumption of the facility. Identify the period and level of peak energy demand for each building within the facility of the eligible recipient and the sources of energy consumption that are contributing the most to that period of peak energy demand. Recommend controls and management systems to reduce or redistribute peak energy consumption. Estimate the total energy and cost savings potential for the facility of the eligible recipient if all recommended upgrades and</td></tr><tr><td>ENCOURAGED</td><td>· Recommend strategies to increase energy efficiency of the systems utilizing fuels, including natural gas and hydrogen.</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Residential Energy Audits</td><td>REQUIRED</td><td>·Use thesameevaluationcriteriaastheHomePerformance Assessment used in the Energy Star program. Identify and recommend lifecyclecost-effective opportunities to reduce the energy consumption of the facility. Recommend controls and management systems to reduce or redistribute peak energy consumption. Provide a Home Energy Score, or equivalent score (as determined by the Secretary), for the residential building by using DOE's Home Energy Score Tool or equivalent scoring</td></tr><tr><td>ENCOURAGED</td><td>· Recommend strategies to increase energy efficiency of the facility through use of electric systems or other high-efficiency systems utilizing fuels, including natural gas and hydrogen.</td></tr><tr><td>Commercial and Residential Upgrades and Retrofits</td><td>REQUIRED</td><td>· Recommended in the qualifying commercial or residential energy audit, as applicable, completed for the building or facility. Satisfy at least 1 of the criteria in the Home Performance Are life-cycle cost-effective. Improve, with respect to the building or facility, at least one of the following: OThe physical comfort of the building or facility occupants. o The energy efficiency of the building or facility. oThe quality of the air in the building or facility. Lead to at least one of the following outcomes: oReduce the energy intensity of the building or facility.</td></tr></table></body></html>  